This is Jocko podcast number one 43 with Echo Charles and me,
Jocko Willink.
Good Evening Echo.
Good evening.
War is never what we think it is.
It is butchery,
stupidity and hate.
Hm.
It is 90% boredom.
It can be horrible beyond anything you've ever imagined.
It can also be ludicrous and absurd and technologically refined.
Tragically.
It's lessons are always forgotten only to be rethought on still another
battlefield.
The Vietnam War was our first real media war spanning the globe in outraged
unreality,
bringing videotaped death and destruction into countless homes,
fermenting protests,
and political justifications
affecting the world's generation.
It shattered our dreams of abstract morality and in horrible reality re-educated
our youth to a third world of suffering they had never known and had now felt
deep within their own countries worldwide.
Okay.
Vietnam was a symbol of the times.
The best of hopes turned inside out of fear of no return.
But for me and many others,
the Vietnam War was much more,
it was in a moment our survival and death
in primitive sophistication,
our destruction
and rebirth.
It was in short,
a long imprisoned cry of what we all were not.
Okay.
This is a diary I kept while I was in Vietnam.
Katie is for the most part unstructured,
as many of us were,
but all of it is true
history.
Someone once said is trying to tell the truth through the most acceptable lie.
Yeah,
but this book is not about history.
Okay?
It only tells the truth as far as one person felt it,
a frozen spark of time and bracing one American soldier in a Southeast Asian war
and
that right there is the of a book.
It's,
it's a diary and it's written by a guy by the name of Peter Nash Swisher,
a man that was born in Oxford,
England.
His Dad was actually in the Second World War and was killed coming home after
the war and his mom eventually moved to Canada and then remarried to an American
and Peter was adopted by that American father and grew up in Fort Atkinson,
Wisconsin and Louisville,
Kentucky.
That's where he grew up.
That's where he graduated high school and then he got his degree in American
history in 1966 from Amherst college and then he got his masters from Stanford
in 1967
and in 1968
he was drafted into the army.
He went to ocs November of that same year
and by 1969 he was doing his tour
in Vietnam
and yeah,
he definitely has a gift for writing and luckily he left a little bit of that
gift to be shared with us in this book of his,
which is called a Vietnam diary.
And
let's go to the book.
He starts off with a little prologue.
He's got some quotes in there and I pulled out one of the quotes from the
prologue.
It says,
the ultimate explanation of Vietnam must come from those involved there and
observer,
even when blood splatters his clothes remains outside.
The basic experience of Vietnam is to be bound to stay in that war for a year or
until wounded or killed.
Yeah,
no reporter can impose this shackle on himself.
He is like a doctor in an asylum.
He can report with compassion and empathy.
He can understand a great deal.
But the final truth remains with those who must exist in madness or in the
combat of their war.
Okay.
And that's actually a quote that he pulled from a guy named Arthur t Hadley,
who was a war correspondent.
And that's very accurate.
There's a huge difference between someone that's reporting the war,
even though they're there.
And you've seen the war reporters that are right next to the infantry men.
They sometimes they're even carrying weapons,
but there's a key component that is that those guys can leave if they want to.
And those soldiers cannot,
they're there.
They're going to have to do their year and the way it works.
And that's a huge difference.
Psychological,
huge difference.
Okay.
And uh,
and a real difference of reality.
And so the,
the diary starts off November 20th,
1967,
he's going through basic training in Fort Dix,
New Jersey.
Pulled a little,
couple little section out of that.
What's the spirit of the bay and net to kill?
What's the spirit of the band net to kill sergeant h and he refers everyone here
just by the,
the first letter of their last name.
Sergeant h was our third instructor,
another airborne veteran,
and one of the two survivors in his Vietnam company who came back alive once
when his weapon jammed in combat.
He had killed two Vietcong with his bayonet and his rifle bet,
but
sometimes we heard him screaming in his sleep.
You see this Poncho,
you see it,
smell it.
It's got the same musty odor of the jungle smell the fungus,
I wrapped up a lot of bodies in these ponchos.
You goddamn stupid trainees.
You'll see you'll all be over there.
Yeah,
I mean this is 19 1967 so you're starting to get trained by guys that are coming
back from the war and they're going to have a little bit of a different attitude
than if they were a peacetime guys.
Although this is,
you know,
the Korean War was just shortly before this and the World War II.
So you have a lot of veterans in the war at this time.
When I came in,
when I was going through seal training,
there was not a lot of combat veterans.
There was,
there was some Vietnam guys for sure,
but you know I was going through in 1991 so most of the Vietnam guys we're
getting towards the end of their career mean the Vietnam War for,
for the teams,
what is it,
72 maybe the last platoons tunes went over there.
So they were at the end of their 20 year mark.
You know some of the guys that stuck around for 30 years.
Yeah,
sure.
Roger,
Aiden.
Yeah,
for sure.
There's just some of those old master chiefs.
Absolutely.
But those weren't your primary instructors.
Your primary instructors were guys that had been in for five years and never
seen combat.
So that all change.
Now of course with the current wars going on
back to the book,
February 13th,
1969 orders,
it's not very pleasant to get orders overseas.
The initial shock honestly scares you a lot.
You think maybe I'll die,
but lead or the endless reams of paperwork show you dying is not that simple.
Take your plague.
Flu,
typhus and cholera shots.
For example,
one medical Sargent is Mack the knife,
especially if you're on orders.
Then there's rvn training and m 16 rifle qualification and press orientation and
a multitude of sign out sheets.
Do you have any overdue books at the Post Library you think?
Yes,
I do have an overdue book.
Will they still send me to Vietnam if I keep it hidden under my laundry bag?
Okay.
June 1st,
1969 the last night before the plane leaves from Travis,
you are together for the last time,
stoic and brave.
At least that's how it is in the movies.
In reality,
you are sick at heart in the mind and belly.
You talk of the past pretending,
but knowing what each suffers silently,
it isn't very pleasant or romantic at all.
Yeah.
Why are we such stupid people?
She sobs tears on sweat,
body close.
You love her fiercely.
Your country is another question entirely
as usual.
I am skipping through portions of this book to make it short enough to cover on
the podcast and actually I don't even know if this book is in publication
anymore.
I had a pdf file from back in the day and I don't even know where I got it from.
Yeah.
Um,
I googled it.
There's some pdf files floating around,
but get it and read whole thing.
June 3rd,
1969 h hour war should be dramatic like the movies,
sweating and landing in a craft,
hating the beach under fire.
Who'd believe I went to war in a pink,
orange Braniff international airplane with a stewardess and purple leotards
wishing us a good trip on behalf of the captain and the crew
going to war for Christ's sake in a pink orange airplane.
I used to think war was somewhat serious and this is again,
this is a Vata.
People don't realize this.
They use contract air.
They still do that sometimes and you'll fly over in a civilian plane.
Hmm.
July 6th,
1969 airborne
clouding dust betrays a lonely convoy.
Dirt smothered,
embraced in jungle vines and Baron Hill's,
Solon crags and silence.
A flash of light below two more exploding lines.
We see toy trucks crawling,
clawing,
spitting,
snake like steel.
Okay.
Too small for life sized war,
too far away for death.
So he's the first visions of combat and he's looking down at it doesn't really,
it's he's admitting he's like too far away.
It's not real for him.
That changes.
July 17th,
1969 my first body,
I saw my first body line west of plight,
who stretched out on a Poncho waiting to be airlifted back to the coast.
He was gray,
white,
and very dead.
Even today I can see his gaping bloody mouth gasping for air.
A young kid who couldn't have been more than 20 years old
and I thought,
Christ,
he's really,
really dead.
Okay.
I remembered some James Bond and John Wayne sequels and those TV melodramas
where the American love for violence is only make believe
where the movie and TV casualties can always get up and go home.
Probably in time for supper,
but this kid would not.
You would make Walter Cronkite's CBS News report as just another figure
changing 229 American battle deaths reported this week to 230 instead
and then everyone including the president were turned to watch the Monday night
football game on channel five.
Then here was my first body.
I should have been trained for this sort of thing a long time ago playing cops
and robbers,
cowboys and Indians,
Bang,
you're dead.
Okay.
And he was,
he really was
July 25th,
1969 remembrance to
this is how I was when I saw you last.
I was stagnant,
going no place and searching desperately for something I had lost long ago in
the barracks.
And so we escaped to the Gray New England coast and the Boston fog and a warm
Downey bed to greet the night.
And I began to live again and laugh.
I love you.
Still forgiving me that month.
Okay.
And forgiving yourself without promise.
August 11th,
news item,
it was President Nixon's first visit to Vietnam as president.
He insisted on going to Saigon rather than camera on bay.
The huge supply base camera on Bay doesn't count.
He said that isn't Vietnam Time magazine.
August 8th,
dear sir,
in light of a Viet Cong sapper attack on Cam Ron Hospital,
I questioned the source of those people who believe camera on Bay isn't Vietnam.
Okay.
I think the 98 men who were casualties and the parents of those who were killed
would agree that Cameron Bay isn't exactly Disneyland.
You bastard.
September 1st,
Rodriguez.
Yeah.
Jim Rodriguez,
who was killed last week.
Okay.
After only 12 days in country.
I remember as an upperclassmen how we locked his heels together and taught him
the ocs version of military discipline.
It was double time,
four times around the field.
Booney runs attitude,
Jack's harassment and constant pressure physically and mentally.
Rodriguez never broke.
A matter of fact,
he met our challenge one better and went on to airborne trainee training briefly
serving later as an airborne instructor.
I wonder how much we really influenced Rodriguez.
We showed him how to play soldier.
Okay.
But no one ever taught him how to play war.
It's hard to play games with dead men.
Okay.
Yeah.
Like I said,
this,
this style of writing,
this just straight forward style of writing.
It's,
it's different.
It's different.
Either something,
there's something very guttural about it.
There's something very visceral about it and it seems,
I mean,
it seems like he's writing this with,
when he wrote this,
he had no intention whatsoever of ever sharing it with anyone.
That's kind of what it seems,
especially,
you know,
he's talking about the,
the,
the woman that he loved back home and you can see his attitude.
It,
it,
it goes kind of all over the place sometimes.
And so there's,
there's,
there's a certain level of just reality in this that,
I don't know,
it's the really,
um,
it hits in a different way than many of the books.
Many of the books.
Hmm.
September 10th,
1969 combat engineers,
bronze backs bent to bridges,
culverts,
picks and timber trestles sweat in grime and death by hidden mines and snipers
construction repair.
And when will you fix my air conditioner?
Ask headquarters.
Yeah.
Again,
you know,
I,
I know I've talked about the engineers that work with us or,
and what the,
how,
how incredibly hard and dangerous that job was.
Those guys were heroes.
Like you couldn't even believe what these guys were doing and this is the,
just the same exact sentiment there.
You know,
they call,
I just said engineers and he's his combat engineers.
That's exactly right.
It's combat engineers.
100%
September 11th,
1969 artillery,
cannon crashes eastward,
magnificent,
terrible funder.
Bright flash night bordered,
a surging mass explodes and thunder pageants of fire again,
again in savage.
Aw,
we celebrate the festival of death.
Okay.
September 20th,
1969 a heavy load on the way back from queen non.
Yesterday we stopped our jeep to help an old man with a heavy load,
which had fallen by the side of the road.
The old man was carrying home the remains of his youngest son who had died
during recent fighting along the Cambodian border.
The Saigon government,
he said had provided a free coffin and transportation back to his village,
but the truck had lost an axle five kilometers down the road.
This wasn't his first tragedy.
He told us that his eldest son had died two years older,
earlier in the assault on way,
but he never saw that son's body since he was a Viet Cong.
He was an old man.
He said heartbroken and ignorant.
Okay?
He had lost two sons drafted to fight on different sides of the war.
Okay.
And even now,
he didn't really know what they had died for sure.
Yeah.
We hear that about the civil war in America that you'd have brothers fighting
against brothers and I mean clearly this happened in Vietnam,
but you don't think of a guy that's given up one son to each side and they're
both dead.
September 24th,
1969 a night.
The heavens lie beyond us.
Void yet filled with substance,
light and form.
Infinity
from nothing all exists as billions age our world.
Not yet.
A grain of sand in mighty are the universe endures
mortal
week and woman born.
Look beyond the sky,
some clear and clove and night by lands and meet this sea.
Embraced the stars in infinite conceit.
Deny from nothing all you feel
and celebrate the over mind.
Original Prime,
oval force,
the birth of all that is.
Yeah,
October 2nd,
1969 the convoy
two hours before the Dawn,
our convoy groups quietly,
efficiently trailers,
tanks and armored trucks with plated steel alert rows of limitless inhuman war
machines assembled in Detroit from America's great arsenal of doubt.
Okay.
Giant tinker toys of war.
The mission always comes before the welfare of the man.
The all pervading mission that no one ever knows the men comes second rows of
tired army ants and dusty olive drab,
no longer young,
grim and grimy.
Keep their faith and faded photographs of home of virgin hope of things to come
or some in beads.
An Albatross of peace medallions hanging from their tarnish neck,
a human cry and muted rage to say at War I am.
I am.
Yeah,
the soon forgotten symbols of a never caring world,
it's time to move a hundred muffled coughs and snarls of steel and iron trucks.
The schedule must be met.
We can't be late for war.
The dawn is rising as we rumble passed our first awaken village here,
people move to fold and field a farmer even now to toil behind his beast and
plow the sacred soil his father wants endured
his desecrated tome
of craters,
mines and shells across the ridge and down the dusty roads.
Okay,
but it will pass.
It always has.
The land endures all things.
Very true statement.
Especially.
Hear me.
You can imagine.
It was so,
what did I say?
19 says this,
1969 yeah,
no,
1969 and he's looking at these farmers and this war is going on all around them
and guess what they're doing?
They're doing what they've been doing for thousands of years.
They're plowing those fields in.
This war is going to come and it's going to go and they're still gonna be there
doing what they do.
The soil it's going to endure.
The land is going to endure.
October 9th,
1969 the sporting life,
I met a Huey gunship pilot and Quinan who had just extended his tour of duty
down in the Mekong Delta.
Okay.
Most pilots did the job they had to do and then went,
but not this one.
He actually enjoyed his work.
He bragged to a group of us one night that during a dull day where there was a
little action in the delta,
he kept in practice by shooting at numerous water buffalo in rice patties and
sniping at frightened farmers.
In one case he said he'd played cat and mouse with an old Papasan on a bicycle
weaving frantically down the road.
I scared the hell out of him for awhile.
He said.
Then I got him good with a beautiful long burst,
no chance.
Hale,
he was in a free fire zone,
probably VC.
Anyways,
all the slopes down their VC.
We looked at him incredulously and then left his table,
leaving him alone,
gloating to himself.
Even at war,
he remained a leper within some strange,
unwritten code.
October 10th,
1969 how will beach at night?
I wish you were here right now so I could hold you very close and tell you
things.
There are no words for
October 14th,
1969 home one,
we cling to something close at home,
a girl or shadow on the wall,
Friesen a ragged hopes,
so precious and return
if lost,
we too are lost.
Not Finding hate as soldiers seldom hate but bitter,
stale in passion.
Dead.
We lose our need to love
home too.
I love you as gentle dawn.
Spread out against the savage sky.
A part of life.
So very far away,
right?
Yeah.
It's um,
again,
important to point out as I always try to,
that
these men that went to war war,
not just soldiers and not just marines and not just sailors,
not just airman,
but they were,
they were men with hopes and dreams.
They were men in love with that girl back home and they couldn't stop thinking
about her.
October 23rd,
may,
I was talking to may today a pretty Vietnamese who works in headquarters,
detachment as a secretary may speaks English very well and often we joke and
talk about a lot of trivial things,
but today the conversation was more serious.
Okay.
What would happen?
I asked her if the Viet Cong and north Vietnamese take over the south one day.
Yeah.
May's face remained impassive.
Okay.
I work for the Americans.
So they would shoot me,
then they would kill my family.
And that is the reality.
And that's the reality that you don't,
when Isis came into Ramadi after we had left about seven years after we had left
and after Ramadi had been peaceful for about seven years in an isis came in and
took it over.
So one of the first things that they did was they,
anyone that they knew had worked with coalition forces at all.
They got murdered and their families got murdered.
And from what I,
the information that I received from my contacts over there was about 500
families were murdered.
All of them.
So yeah,
when,
if you're going to go into a country or you're going to work there and you're
going to support some of the people,
make sure you stay there until the job is done.
November 2nd,
1969 slopes and dinks.
Yeah.
He was a young buck sergeant from Alabama,
proud of his artillery days at Fort Sill,
Oklahoma and proud to defend America from worldwide communist aggression.
Okay.
The Vietnamese communist in his eyes were subhumans.
Anyway,
slopes and dinks who fell no human emotion and therefore who could be eradicated
as swiftly as possible without regret.
He saw this enemy,
he told me for the first time during the Tet offensive in 1969 when for days and
nights on end,
his battery kept mowing down human wave enemy assaults by lowering the Howard
sirs to tree trunk level and firing bumblebee canisters,
which sprayed thousands of anti-personnel darts into the enemy troops.
Yeah,
but still they kept on coming.
Yeah.
One wave after another on the night after the last attack,
he went out with a small patrol to survey the damage and found hundreds and
thousands of the enemy dead.
But he also found frightened young boys and young men who had died clutching one
another in terror or who had died trying to bandage each other's wounds.
And the young sergeant told me that he knew then that they must also have
mothers,
sisters,
and wives at home,
like his men.
Okay.
And that they had been terrified during the battle,
just like his men.
Okay.
And that they bled and felt pain and cried just like his men.
Yeah.
And he never called them slopes are dinks ever again.
November 21st,
1969 to Sydney,
Australia
after six months at war,
a 10 day miracle,
a beautiful heavenly city on the bay.
The frontier spirit with arise,
sense of Aussie humor,
drinking a schooner of swan lager with new friends,
invited everywhere.
A genuine Australian openness upfront and honest.
The Bay and the Opera House,
Bondi beach riding the waves,
the restaurants and nightlife.
Incredibly beautiful,
Tall Australian girls disarming and very real,
not afraid to be themselves,
to disagree,
outgoing and direct,
deep and beautiful like their city,
Sydney,
Australia,
the reality of heaven.
Treating us as people again and true friends making us feel more at home than
home itself.
Our last night was spent in a seafood restaurant.
Mrs. Murphy,
the restaurant older told us if you'd come earlier,
boys,
we'd have had some find dates for you tonight.
Unfortunately,
no wine was sold after 9:00 PM with dinner and older couple approached our table
here.
Boys take our bottle.
Your father's really helped us during the last war and we know how you feel
about this one.
Yeah.
God bless you and take care of boys.
Take care.
Sydney,
Australia,
a beautiful lasting friendship,
a love affair with life that back in Vietnam had all too soon.
The unfamiliar face that precious things take on when our heart is left behind.
Yeah,
I can't even,
I've been to Australia and it's awesome and I can't even imagine what it would
be like going from the Vietnam War into Australia for 10 days of leave and to
have the Australian people just be awesome.
So
to the Aussies out there,
thanks for the support.
December 19th,
1969 incoming adult fid,
muffled clothes growing fearful fid followed twice.
Another crash.
Christ body,
feet,
flailing hands and sweat,
waiting,
crash.
God,
oh Jesus.
Reseeding thud waiting.
Still waiting.
Not You.
Thank God.
Move your head.
Not you move your arm.
Not this time.
So there you go.
That's incoming.
That's,
that's,
that's waiting for,
that's when you hear,
when you hear it get launched and you know it's coming.
That's what it is.
When he say not you,
that's like he's checking.
Dang.
Is that Yup.
Moving your head hit.
Nope,
not you.
Move your arm.
Not this time.
We're good.
Yeah.
Okay.
January 22nd,
1970 dispatch at 19 1145 hours,
10 kilometers northwest of Hoy.
Non a 16 year old youth from a nearby hamlet entered fond queet hamlet and
through to fragmentation grenades into a group of children and Marines of the u
s m c combined civic action platoon two three seven
there were four friendly killed in action,
Vietnamese children and 15 wounded in action,
11 Vietnamese children and for United States Marine Corps.
The youth who threw the grenades escaped.
That's just,
I mean just that snapshot of what you're dealing with.
There you are in a civic action platoon out there trying to help out at a 16
year old kid comes in hawks,
two grenades and wounds,
11 of the little kids you're trying to help and four of your men,
if that's what your life is.
February 4th,
small and pleading eyes are combat medic with all his tubes and bottles could
never heal that gaping wound nor still you're fearful cry.
Jesus.
God,
what a petty careless war when armies clash and hate to disembowel a child.
February 15th,
1970 a green baret in Nha Trang,
one can never generalize about individual divisions,
regiments or any particular unit.
It's hard enough generalizing about particular people,
but in not trying,
I did meet a green baret who as one individual was at least honest about his
motivation.
I was sharing his battle of Jack Daniels and ice.
I joined the green brace for excitement.
I guess on one hand we're living with the yards,
raising crops,
growing pigs,
and hunting.
Charlie,
on the other hand,
you
kill and drink,
smoke and whore.
Every minute may be your last,
you know what I mean?
Man,
if I were back in the states doing this sort of thing,
I'd either be dead or sitting on death row by now,
but over here we've got a free license.
You know what I mean?
Okay.
You said he was thinking of settling down after the war,
getting into a business trainee program when he got back to the states or maybe
into some branch of law enforcement.
Okay.
Yeah.
War is suited to some people for sure.
March 1st,
1970 interlude.
I saw a movie tonight that made me think of you.
It's bad thinking.
You know,
yesterday I thought of Lee who was killed last month in one core.
The movie was one of the few we saw together last year.
How different seeing it again alone,
sitting in the sand,
out war.
Okay.
It made me think of our own interlude,
why we could never accept less than we had
and would never have again.
I don't know if you want to think about that sentence too much.
It's a little bit heavy.
Why we could never accept less than we had and would never have again.
March 4th remembrance three
when you smiled at me,
I knew you were different.
You had no snide remark from my uniform or unhindered a look of mock pity,
which seem to say,
look everybody,
it's one of them again.
And you didn't approach me with a fashionable overriding concern or preached me
from a preassembled dreadnought of morality.
No,
and you didn't stare away from me or at me or through me.
All you said was hello.
Okay.
What?
Through that one simple ward.
I was no longer alone.
Observation Flower pedal pushing through the crusted earth,
embraces light and dies.
The ugly root endures,
but never booms.
March 14th,
1970 the provost marshal jeep stealing in Vietnam was a national pastime.
The Vietnamese nationals had acquired chain Carter's and became very adept at
western auto mechanics with special emphasis in jumpstarting the engines and
removing cereal or identification markings with lightening speed.
Okay.
Even the shore bound navy installations took great delight in their midnight
requisitions of army material and the green berets from Nha Trang had on one
occasion brought in of Ch 47 sling helicopter and airlifted away a brand new
vehicle that was apparently impossible to obtain through ordinary supply
channels.
Well,
yes,
the new provost marshal at camera on Bay decided to do something about these
thefts and implemented a stern directive from the military police to all
personnel who had their vehicles stolen.
They would now have to write an extensive report in triplicate to the provost
marshal explaining the surrounding circumstances and further appear before a
board of inquiry remaining liable to possible article 15 or cart martial
proceedings for negligently allowing these thefts to occur.
Okay.
These orders were to have take fast to take effect by the Provost Marshal's
directive on March 11th that would really take care of the problem.
The provost marshal promised the general by the sternest measures and prompt
prosecution of any negligent offenders.
On the morning of March 13th the Provost Marshal was seen walking to work.
Someone had stolen his jeep.
Yeah,
I like that.
Good little story.
There's that stuff definitely happens.
My CBS,
we're quite good at that.
So in task unit bruiser we had CBS that,
that the construction battalion,
their navy guys that do construction,
but they also have combat skills.
So their,
their motto is we build,
we fight and they should have another model that's like,
we get things if you need them.
So my guys were awesome at that and they were also awesome at everything else
they did.
But it was nice that when I needed something they would find a way to acquire
it.
Mm hmm.
Thanks there too.
You bruiser CBS.
All right.
March 15th,
1970 graffiti and he's just got a list of graffiti here.
Um,
lifer,
986 days in a wake up.
Next buffer.
I came in the army.
This is all Ms. Bell.
Before I came in the army,
I couldn't spell engineer now or one.
Okay,
here's a good one.
The U S Army,
184 years of tradition.
Unhampered by progress.
The army's like a rubber.
It gives you that false sense of security while you're getting screwed.
It's not a real war yet.
We're just 550,000 military advisers
fighting for pieces like screwing for chastity.
Share in the fright with freedom.
Go home with a friend.
Yeah.
Next.
Gimme your hearts and minds and I'll burn your fucking hot.
Next war is hell,
but a year without a woman is a real bitch.
Okay,
next.
How can we can get to the moon,
but I can't get a home.
Next,
those personnel with short stacks and low Mona manifold pressure,
please taxi closer to the urinal
next to a Syrian lives.
That's a little shout out to catch 22 the book next with the last American
soldier leaving Vietnam.
Please turn out the light at the end of the tunnel.
Think that's in reference to the fact that the higher ups kept saying that they
could see the light at the end of the tunnel.
I ain't,
you know,
we're coming.
We're getting there.
Yeah.
You start to see the light at the end of the tunnel.
[inaudible]
March 19th,
1970 love l UV.
We once had a little puppy called love.
She was the company Mascot and Doug,
just about everyone.
She was one of those beautiful little creatures who hadn't ever learned to hate
or fear.
She trusted everyone love,
trusted the sergeant to even though the sergeant wanted her wasted as a damn
nuisance.
So loved never came home with us,
but neither did the sergeant.
Yeah.
Better halves,
truck convoys and Mecca.
Mechanized patrols often wed many men to their vehicles during most of their
Vietnam tour.
The names of such better halves included.
Here's,
so this is just the names of a bunch of different vehicles battling Bob
psychedelic flower,
old faithful,
roadrunner acid,
rock hell for certain puzzle palace.
Push your man,
grim reaper,
iron butterfly,
grasp,
bender,
artful dodger moratorium.
And Malfunction junction
and uh,
my first deployment to Iraq are,
are you,
you might appreciate the Sdi,
I think I've said this before,
but our vehicles,
my first deployment we're named after,
after the movie King Pin,
so bigger and bigger and was one of them for sure.
Yeah.
That was all.
And then Lafe I think it was primarily layoffs idea.
He knew he wanted to name and did name.
They named all the vehicles after Gi Joe Characters,
like Cobra commander and stuff like that.
Cobra commander.
So there you go.
Get some,
you know,
it's,
it's one of those things like,
like is that just always going to happen?
That's what else in 300 years if you have a warrant or some kind of vehicle,
do you just name them whatever kind of cool names you can give them?
I think it's cause it's a little point of control that you have even as a,
as a front line guy.
Yeah.
Like that you can do and it's cool.
It's like kind of do little gives your wore little character.
Yeah.
Like it's a little fun thing you can add.
Like,
you know,
how the patches situation or,
or you know just all that stuff or seal house BTF you know,
kind of to kind of deviate from the war homos in,
in your own little group allows us for a little creativity.
Little creativity.
Yes.
It's funny cause well naming vehicles was good and I remember so they,
we used a number of the vehicles.
One,
two,
three,
four,
five,
six,
seven or one,
two,
three,
four,
five,
six or whatever.
One,
two,
three,
four,
five.
There's a problem with it though.
Cause the,
the vehicles aren't always where they're supposed to be getting.
Yeah.
So you go,
oh wait a second.
So you'd go out and get it a number third vehicle,
which was number three but you weren't supposed to be in that vehicle is number
three vehicles number six in position right now.
Cause they got scrambled up while they were maneuvering.
Yeah.
So that's why we ended up,
I,
I told the guys name the vehicles,
no numbers.
They did named them and they named him after King Pin.
Nope.
I think there might be a picture of there.
There's definitely some pictures of,
uh,
of my first deployment in the dichotomy of,
in the dichotomy of leadership book.
But I want to see if you can see any of the vehicle names written on the side.
Zev,
with one of the ones that I saw.
Big Zev.
Yeah.
Not In the book,
but one of the pictures.
That's that's,
yeah,
that's from,
that's from Ramadi.
That was big.
Zahav I think that was actually our big giant war.
I was like,
there was a,
I think it was the marine corps had a big six by truck.
That was,
they had war pig.
That was a war pig.
I was like that one.
I mean that's kind of a given that you're going to have it and I was no names on
that vehicle check.
Next March 20th,
1970 the two fronts.
The kid was caught out in the open by a stray mortar round.
They don't make coffee the way they used to.
The businessman said,
and those kids with long hair,
Jesus,
the impact cut off his arm,
the lower half of his right leg and blew off half his head oozing red,
black blood into the sand.
He was 19 years old and from Ohio.
Well,
the president must know what he's doing.
He has my full support.
Where the hell is the waitress?
The kid only had two weeks left in Vietnam three days before he'd already framed
a copy of his orders home.
April 2nd,
1970 a bond of friendship.
It was hot.
The ambush had been effective out there in the brush.
There was little protection from site or hail of gunfire.
The soldier caught sight of his buddy.
Seriously wounded,
sir,
please let me get him please.
The officer,
well aware of their deep friendship hesitated and then said,
go,
but it's not worth it.
Your friend is probably dead and you may get killed trying,
but the soldier went.
Miraculously,
he hoisted his friend onto his shoulders and under heavy fire.
The two of them stumbled back into the trench.
The officer looked tenderly at the Woodby rescuer.
I told you it wouldn't be worth it.
Your buddy is dead and you are badly wounded.
Okay.
I know sir.
The soldier replied,
but you're wrong.
It was worth it.
Yeah.
Because just before he died,
he looked at me and said,
I knew you'd come.
Okay.
It didn't matter that day that one man was white and the other black.
Okay,
thank you God.
That out of a hellish war we can still learn the meaning of true Brotherhood
Chaplain Donald J.
Robinson from the hundred first airborne division.
It's where he took that story from
when you were kind of jumping back and forth till like,
oh,
coffee isn't made with these two is that,
was he like just comparing,
he had more why I should have described a little bit better.
He had one set of the stuff that was taking place in the civilian world back in
the states.
He had in parentheses.
Yeah.
So while this kid is getting ripped apart by a mortar round back in American
parentheses,
it just says,
um,
you know,
oh hey,
where's the weight?
Yes.
And you can imagine how,
you know,
that's Wah.
You know,
I think even during World War II,
during World War II,
the guys were over fighting,
but at home,
like everyone was focused on the war effort and they were rationing and they
were building,
I mean,
they changed factories to start building planes instead of like civilian cars.
They built war planes,
they build bombs and they build ammunition.
They built guns.
Like the whole country was focused on it.
In Vietnam,
that wasn't really happening.
You know,
it wasn't really that same situation.
If you got drafted,
your whole world freaking went upside down.
But if you didn't get drafted,
you were going to live your normal life and go work your job and live normal and
go to the restaurant and ask where the hell the waitresses.
Yeah,
that's similar to what it's like now.
I mean actually that is what it's like now,
and I've talked about that a bunch of times,
talked about it with Sam Harris.
You know what we,
the,
the war,
the wars that we have right now,
there's a vast majority of the population of America.
It doesn't affect them at all.
It literally doesn't affect them at all.
Yeah.
Cause it has had no impact on the food that you eat.
The gas that you use,
zero impact,
the,
even the way you travel,
like okay.
You could say,
well you know,
we used to be able to,
and I don't know how much you traveled before nine 11 I traveled a lot before
nine 11 and you know,
it was a lot easier to travel.
It was a lot quicker and there was to flights always seem to be happening.
It's just an easier deal.
Yeah.
But now TSA is in enough,
when you get used to the program and whatever,
it's not that big of a deal.
It's not like you're freaking life is,
it's not a big deal.
Yeah.
So really the wars that we're going through right now for people that are
detached from him.
So I mean obviously you've got military,
you've got the families in the military,
but once you step outside,
you know,
you step one or two degrees away from that,
you could be living your life.
And if you didn't see it on the news,
you would never ever know that there was a war going on.
Yeah.
And that's,
and what from,
I think the reason that he wrote that was cause that's talking about now from
the perspective of like when you're in the war,
you're thinking about those people that are,
they're not even this,
not even effecting them.
Occasionally watched the news and go,
oh,
there was someone else killed.
Okay,
can I get,
can you pass the mayonnaise?
Yeah.
And even how like if you're not engaged in it,
it's like,
you know,
just how you say when you only,
when you watching the news,
that's when you see it.
And even now,
like when you watched the news,
you're like,
oh wow.
You know,
that's,
that's too bad that that's happening.
Literally the moment the news goes off and I'm not talking about the worst off,
I'm talking about everything on the news really.
Because you know,
I don't know,
car accident or something.
So it's getting so ridiculous right now in the new cycle is completely
ridiculous right now.
And it's no big surprise that why people listen to this podcast,
why people are listening to all podcasts,
why people are watching youtube videos that are two and three and four hours
long.
Why is that?
Because they want to have a little bit more depth of what they're hearing.
I was on the airplane,
I got done,
you know,
they make you put away your computer and so I turned on the news because it had
streaming cable news and I turn it on and I mean I'm going,
when did they turn on?
When do they make you put away your computer?
20 minutes.
I had 20 minutes left and in that 20 minutes there was like three or two
sections of commercials.
Actually there might've been three sections of commercials that are all like
four minutes long.
I was getting so mad.
I'm thinking to myself,
I'm thinking myself,
Bro,
I just want to know what's happening and you've got to show me another
commercial about some mattress company or what I mean,
just just,
just,
just trying to sell me stuff and then it goes back to the coverage.
Right.
He goes back to the coverage and the coverage is people yelling at each other.
There's no conversations happening and it's,
it's,
and I've done,
you know,
I've done plenty of news bits,
bites,
whatever it's called,
and you compared to a podcast,
it's a joke.
It's a joke.
That's totally nothing.
That's why,
that's why,
you know,
Ilan mosque going on a Joe Rogan and talking for three hours,
that's a whole different story.
That's a whole different thing.
And I kind of think that's the beginning.
That's the,
that's sort of,
it's the beginning of the end and the slums.
Yeah.
At the end of some stuff and the starting of some other stuff.
But that when you,
when you just can s turn on the news and it's,
and it's over that quickly and it doesn't bring you anything other than
literally the headline.
It's just the headline,
which a lot of times is misleading,
which is,
yeah.
Which is clickbait often.
Yeah.
Right.
It's clickbait and your cell phone killing you.
They're not saying this though.
Your cell phone's killing you,
but is it kind of thing.
But now I got to know and I got to click on that.
Yeah.
So nowadays that's even,
you could say that's probably even worse because there's so many good.
And plus,
not to mention back then if you were going to watch,
you know,
my dad was telling me this the other day that back in the going to do they,
they had,
uh,
you know,
everyone watched,
like he just mentioned,
he mentioned Walter Cronkite in this.
And like my dad was a kid,
everyone watched Walter Cronkite.
So everyone had a base common theme of discussion.
So when you went to work on Thursday,
everyone had watched the news on Wednesday and everyone saw the same news.
And nowadays,
so if you wanted to watch TV,
you were to watch that.
I mean,
I remember Walter Cronkite,
you know,
that's,
that was my dad.
That's what was on at night.
You Watch Walter Cronkite.
That was just,
that was just how,
and now you can go home and never watched the news.
So you can be completely,
you know,
not only,
it's one thing to say,
hey,
the news is over about the war in 30 seconds and I don't think about anymore.
You can just never even watch it.
You can just watch the Instagram videos of car crashes or,
or what other dumb stuff do you watch on on Instagram?
The Trump grille fail.
Drunk girl fails.
Yeah,
let's watch 30 we'll,
I've got,
you know,
an extra half an hour,
I'll watch a half an hour worth of drunk girls fails and they're,
and they're funny and they're entertaining and they,
what part of the mind do they stimulate?
Cause they must stimulate some part of your brain because when you watch car
crashes,
you know,
and how I was going to throw street fights in there,
but when I watch street fights,
I'm actually picking them apart.
Right.
I'm actually trying to learn something.
Yeah.
And,
but you know,
drunk girls,
Fay drunk or fellows,
those you don't learn a lot from.
I shone my daughter's drunk girl fails like when they were 1314 years old and be
like,
oh this is what alcohol,
we'll get you.
Yeah.
And the other thing for a while they were showing binge drinking in England and
you know it was a,
it was actually in the news a little bit and it would just be,
you know,
men and women.
But I'd show my daughters,
the women of just girls just completely passed out drunk skirt hanging open.
I mean just puke all over themselves.
And I'm like,
Hey,
this is drinking,
this is alcohol,
this is,
this is what your little friends are getting all excited about and think is so
cool.
This is it.
This is what it gets you.
So good.
Good tool.
So you can totally avoid,
you can basically customize your information,
flow into your brain to whatever you want.
And I'll go one step further and tell you that the algorithms that youtube is
putting ahead of you in front of you.
So when you get done watching one youtube video of a drunk girl fail,
what pops up?
Nine more drunk girl fails that are ready for you to watch.
So they've got an algorithm that's actually going to just lead you to stupidity.
Yeah.
Right.
They should put,
instead of putting advertisements,
they should be like,
okay,
for every four really dumb youtube video you watch,
you should have to watch at least one quarter of that compiled time into
something that's going to teach you something about being a better human being.
Yeah.
Well,
yeah.
I don't know how good of a business model that would be,
but you know,
uh,
it's,
it's a good idea kind of in theory,
I guess you got to get beyond just thinking about money Echo Charles.
Yeah,
I dig it,
man.
I'm not saying they shouldn't,
I'm just saying that that's why they won't,
but yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
It's like right now because right now in this,
in the,
they're trying to put these limits on time or I think the social media people
are saying,
hey,
we're going to help you monitor your time that you spend on social media.
So there'll be like a little thing that pops in z.
You've spent 40 minutes on social media today because you're right.
You know what,
they're not going to say you reached your limit.
You're done.
They're not going to say that they're not,
and they're not going to say,
hey,
you watched nine stupid videos.
Now you're going to watch three educational ones that make you smarter.
Maybe they're going to show you the time of your consumption right next to the
next video that they,
that they made and laid it on what you'd like to watch.
You know,
they all,
it's completely irresistible to,
yeah,
that's what they think that you got to watch a drunk girl fail and you can see
her and she's like standing on the edge of whatever and you know,
it's got to be a good one.
Yeah.
Traced in like ray with exclamation mark or pointing,
you know how they do that or it's like,
oh,
it's so exciting.
So excited to see what you're doing.
But yeah,
so you can be completely,
the point there is you can be completely disconnected,
especially now completely disconnected with the reality of it.
The world.
All right.
April 4th,
1970 colonel s
many officers in NCO is in Vietnam.
No their business,
even though they hate the war,
a war not of their own making,
they really take care of their men and don't give a damn about frontline
formalities.
All they want is to get as many of their men back alive as they can.
The men deeply respect these officer's NTO is and justifiably so.
So there you go.
A little bit,
little bit of leadership here,
taking care of your men.
Other back of the book of other officers are little people with rank and
authority and little else.
They cannot command respect by their actions.
So they must command by their risk,
disrespect verbally and for petty offenses,
for haircuts,
polished boots and frontline salutes.
Colonel s was one of these men,
a little puffy hamster man who would not hesitate to lick the boots on any
occasion.
And he had the audacity on numerous occasions to lambaste various troops for
their sloppy haircuts and uniforms at the base px.
Such troops had just come in from the field or from a long exhausting convoy and
it not seeing the likes of a shower,
much less a barber and a number of weeks.
They're always looked at the kernel in total disbelief and then comprehending in
a long imprisoned raged for this antiseptic staff toady.
Okay.
Colonel S is written directives were likewise in comprehensible,
unnecessary,
wasteful,
and in a word unbelievably stupid.
Many of us thought that the Joseph Heller's catch 22 was an unreal parody about
war until we met Colonel S.
Okay.
One night some Vietcong sappers blew up our petroleum storage dump and it was
incredible.
It was an incredible blaze for three days and nights.
Anyway,
after the immediate attack,
colonel s jumped out of his jeep,
grabbed his 45 caliber pistol and went chasing after the VC,
hellbent for hell bent for musty leather,
stumbling over the sand dunes,
like a long retired prop man and a John Wayne war movie,
attempting a few tile and embarrassing come back.
Okay.
We all sort of hope that the Viet Cong would follow the logical rules of
guerrilla warfare and leave one sniper back to cover their escape,
waiting for the much beloved staff colonel,
right to come panting over the hill.
But no such luck.
Apparently the VC knew all about the kernel and wanted to leave him right where
he was and who could blame them.
So there you go.
There's those type of people.
They exist now.
They are going to exist in the future.
If you're one of those people that started listening to podcasts and joined the
military,
I didn't know.
There's a lot of,
you get some,
that's awesome.
Um,
when you don't,
don't think that every office or you meet is going to be one of these guys that
takes care of their men and doesn't give a damn about frontline formalities and
deeply respected.
That's,
that's not a majority.
Hmm.
Now this other knucklehead,
the guy that's licking the boots of the general,
that's not a majority either,
but they exist.
They're there
April 9th,
1970 waiting,
waiting is 90% of the game in Vietnam.
You keep busy,
you do your job 24 hours a day,
seven days a week.
Occasionally there's a half day off,
a stand down or 10 days of our and our outside of Vietnam,
but the rest of the time you wait seven days a week,
24 hours a day until things happen.
You wait and then when it happens,
you're right in the middle of it.
When you're not working or sleeping,
you're still waiting
and time can play some horrible tricks on you.
Vietnam may be a one year tour for most soldiers,
but they have actually spent many more years than they care to.
Talk about time in Vietnam slows down almost to a stop every minute of every
day.
The Vietnamese have lived with this phenomenon for century,
but the Western soldier cannot.
Your last two weeks in Vietnam,
like your first two weeks are measured in months and you're especially paranoid
about getting hit during these last two weeks and you wait,
okay,
you're off.
Duty Time is short lived and very precious with a 24 hour day in the 72 day a
week is the only time you have to blow off your stress and anxiety,
your loneliness,
fear and frustration.
Sometimes you can almost
okay,
but only almost forget the war.
During this time we grew together with our friends.
We shared each other's hurt and pain are love and hate for home and war.
Okay?
We got to know each other in a very deep sense,
maybe better than our wives or girlfriends ever would.
Okay.
We talked philosophy and we talk nonsense.
We laughed and we cried.
We learned to live and grow.
Okay.
We looked back and we looked ahead.
We talked about changes,
gay nos and in America we committed ourselves to both.
Yeah.
Without these friends,
Vietnam would have been much worse than it already was.
Our friends made this waiting
bearable.
April 11th,
1970 medicine men,
many doctors assigned to the medical corps in Vietnam devote much of,
they're very limited and precious off time duty.
Working with Vietnamese civilians.
Most medical assistance from the other side is gratefully appreciated,
but there are exceptions.
My brother Charles,
who was assigned to the six convalescent center in southern to core work with
the many Vietnamese civilians in camera on village and my car village among
others.
But three weeks after he ended his tour of duty in Vietnam,
a small group of Viet Cong sappers blew up his hospital killing and wounding 98
bedridden patients.
Another army doctor working in a small village not far from camera on Bay,
successfully saved the life of a young girl,
12 years old,
who had both of her hands blown off by a grenade.
The little girl's grandmother was also injured in the blast.
A short while later,
the doctor learned that the young girls injuries occurred while she and her
grandmother had been attempting to booby trap the doctor's own jeep with this
same grenade hoping to kill him when he started his engine.
Yeah,
a third unarmed American spent much of his free time in a similar village
attempting to fight an outbreak of cholera and typhoid.
One young Vietnamese boy was too sick to be saved when the medic arrived in the
village,
but rumors circulated throughout the hamlet that the American medic was
responsible for killing the boy with his poisonous medicine.
Yeah.
Consequently,
the village allowed to Viet Cong snipers to ambush and kill the young medic.
When he drove back into the village a few days later with another shipment of
lifesaving drugs,
few medical personnel dared to enter this village after the episode and half the
villagers later died as a result of cholera epidemic.
Yeah.
This is,
you know,
I was reading last night,
I was actually reading
an interview with David Hackworth that I've read it before,
but I was reading it again and one of the things he said was that
the goal,
because we dropped,
he was going through the numbers and we'll do this,
we'll do this interview on the podcast.
I'll bring it in and,
but he was saying,
he's talking about how much bombs we dropped on Vietnam.
So Vietnam is about the size of California and we dropped more bombs in Vietnam,
then got dropped in all of Europe during World War Two on both sides.
So both the allies and the axis,
all bombs put together during all of World War II.
In all that area,
there was more dropped into just Vietnam.
And what,
what someone said was,
you know,
he's quoting a general that said,
hey,
we're going to bomb them back into the stone age.
And what he didn't realize is that they were already wearing the stone age.
These people are living,
they're farmers,
they're,
they're working.
They're basically in the stone age.
And so that's,
that's my point is that they're not going to understand this medical treatment.
And if someone comes in and starts manipulating their brains and saying,
oh,
that,
that you're,
that kid was killed by this poisonous medicine.
April 15th,
1970 a short,
short story.
Once upon a time there was a politician who all by himself blustered and stormed
and committed half a million young men to risk their lives in war.
Some fat asked power,
hungry politician who in all his potato face ugliness had the gall to consider
himself a statesman and a man of decision.
The American sheep went Baja,
Baja and the young boys died and bulb knows lived happily ever after.
Kirchmeier Lee cautherin daily
Rodriguez
just names.
Just figures.
Okay.
April 19th,
1970 officers and men,
American soldiers in Vietnam came from all walks of life and so did the
officers.
Most of the officers I worked with in Vietnam,
in Saigon,
Kam,
Ron not trading were citizen soldiers like I was graduates of ROTC or ocs.
Only colonel s major tea and Captain d were west point graduates.
Colonel s is discussed elsewhere in this book.
Book.
Captain d didn't like going along with anyone and major [inaudible] was a good
officer,
well liked and much respected.
One out of three ain't bad,
okay.
For six months,
my superior officer was made your p from the hundred 73rd airborne and I
couldn't have worked for a better man in route of the army.
He treated us all like human beings no matter what our rank was and we were all
fiercely loyal in return.
Hey,
there's a new novel idea that's a novel idea.
All of these people that ask me like,
Oh,
I'm taking over leadership position.
What should I do?
Here's step one.
Treat your people like human beings no matter what their rank are,
and look,
he says that people were fiercely loyal and return
when major [inaudible] left.
However,
we became expendable to the greater glories of someone else.
The army,
like any civilian counterpart has its equal share of the good,
the bad,
and the ugly.
One of my closest friends in Vietnam was none of the above.
He was a stevedore officer,
a Pentecostal ministers son,
and Zorba the Greek.
He treated his men as individuals,
rank lists and unique.
They did their job with a minimum of hassle and they loved him.
He was their counselor,
their friend,
and they're equal.
When he was about to leave Vietnam,
his men gave him a symbolic Christening and beer and throw them in the ocean.
He told them to treat each other just like you'd want the other dude to treat
you.
The golden rule in a tub full of beer and inner light forever branching outward
in Vietnam,
when most of us were plodding through the absurd in human procedures of the war,
he alone remained a man of substance.
So again,
it's like treat your people well.
Okay.
April 27th,
1970 a highway accident.
Yesterday we saw the of what happens when a small lambretta scooter bus filled
with 12 Vietnamese civilians hits a Viet cong mind buried along the side of a
main highway.
Okay.
The mine was primarily an anti-personnel device used as the military abstractly
explains it,
the harass,
the civilian population.
There were a lot of mangled bodies lying there until they were policed up
primarily older people,
women and children.
The elder sons and husbands had already been conscripted to take their chances
on the conventional battlefield.
Okay.
In America,
a big highway accident or related disaster usually draws a huge morbid crowd to
stare and Gawk.
Yesterday in Vietnam,
no one seemed to notice
April 30th,
1970 the Koreans,
the Koreans fielded an excessive to crack divisions during the Vietnam War.
The Rock that's Republic of Korea.
The Rock troops were greatly feared and respected by the Viet Cong and north
Vietnamese are like they asked for and gave little corridor to the communists
once when one of their troops was ambushed outside a small village in northern
to core,
the Koreans haunted the sniper down,
brought him back to the village,
strung him up on a tree and skinned him alive.
Okay.
The Koreans bravery,
devotion and ferocity as a fighting force was legendary in Vietnam.
Yeah.
During the Tet offensive of 1968 every major allied headquarters and military
compound in all of Vietnam was attacked by the communists except one.
Yeah.
The VC and the north Vietnamese gave wide berth to the Koreans.
Okay.
I did not know that,
but that's,
that's legit.
They said,
ah,
yeah,
we're not going to attack the Korean compound.
Wouldn't leave it alone.
Yeah,
so there is a,
that speaks volumes.
That speaks volumes.
That's why,
yeah.
You got to carry a big stick.
Got to carry a big stick.
Perhaps the Koreans.
Here's a little poem in memory of a friend killed in action.
Is it weakness for a strong man to be moved by inner touch?
Okay.
Mosty spurn a lonely blade of grass and damn the oceans,
roar
or musty,
look at sentimental beauty as a crutch and choose to play the game of pride by
calling life a whore.
No,
I have seen the strongest man defend a withered rose
then fall from grace because the people didn't understand.
They thought it was his weakness.
They exploited I suppose,
and killing him and ignorance.
They trembled in his hand.
May 25th,
1970 Kent state
in the futility and rage over President Nixon's Cambodian invasion,
the killing of four student demonstrators at Kent State University by the Ohio
National Guard,
mystified many Gis and Vietnam.
We felt this outrage too,
but we had a hard time comprehending how the press and the nation could make so
much of an issue out of these four student deaths when we were losing friends
and comrades and an average of 250 men killed each and every week.
It made us feel as unwilling participants that we were a sub human species
neglected and alone forgotten pawns in a confused and God forsaken war
and we were
on both sides of the ocean.
Okay.
Yeah,
I mean
obviously grown up and you,
you,
you actually study,
like when I went to history class in high school,
like we specifically learned about the Kent State massacre,
which obviously is horrible,
but can you imagine a,
so for the students get killed,
the student protesters obviously never should have happened,
but can you imagine being in Vietnam and the whole country of America is up in
arms about these four students being killed,
but every week there's 250 of your friends getting killed.
Okay.
May 26th,
1970 the real heroes,
the medics and med EVAC personnel and Vietnam almost to a man were beautiful and
very dedicated people braving the fiercest fire and most Horowitz odds to
comfort and evacuate the wounded and dying military and civilian alike often
from both sides.
From the heat of battle.
Yeah.
In any war.
The real heroes are those who tried to maintain basic humanity time and time
again risking their own lives so that others might live
in Vietnam.
The medics and Med evac people were such men.
Okay.
May 28th,
1970 antiwar protesters.
There were various reactions by Vietnam Gis to the antiwar protesters back home.
The bulk of the infantry were high school graduates who knew that college
deferments kept most of the more affluent anti war protestors out of the draft
and thus out of the war
to these gis,
Vietnam was viewed in terms of a deep go deep gut reaction.
Uh,
sort of misery loves company affair.
I wish those God damn protesters could be over here for one week and see what
the VC did to my buddy.
It changed their goddamn minds real quick.
That was,
he had that in quotes.
That wasn't him.
He lived,
he,
that was him.
That was him explaining what the faults of the average infantry GI was.
Back to the book.
Some of our contemporaries had chosen jail or Canada and Sweden.
We had chosen Vietnam.
At least the antiwar protestor could show the world that we were all not
supporting the president's actions even at war.
On the other hand,
we had to survive this war since the VC and the north Vietnamese had designs for
killing us and we had designs on them.
We were both defacto enemies.
Nevertheless,
most Vietnam Gis and the antiwar protesters back home had something in common.
I love this.
This right here is awesome.
The frontline troops hated the war and they hated the safer combat support
personnel.
The combat support personnel hated the war and they hated the organizational
general staff.
The staff personnel hated the war and they hated the troops back in Europe and
the troops back home.
The troops back home hated the war and they hated the placid,
non-caring American civilians.
The American civilians supported the war at the time and they hated the antiwar
protesters and the anti war protesters hated the war and they hated the
government.
Therefore,
the protesters and the soldiers at like a like had one important thing in
common.
We both hated the war.
That's a,
that's a crazy thing to think about.
That whole thing is just like,
it's uh,
it's the,
you could,
you could play those kinds of circular games with our political system all day
long right now.
Oh yeah.
Ridiculous.
This overall feeling perhaps can only be described by a related story as the
American troop withdrawals and Vietnam began and armored outfit,
the two one cab pulled into camera on bay for its long awaited departure home
over four years.
The two one had performed a combat and combat support role in and around Phan
Rang and fans.
Yet they had eaten Dustin mod been shot at mortared and booby trap throughout
their tour and now they were going home to honor these brave and gallant men.
General d of The camera on support command decided to give them a fitting
welcome home amid banners,
bands and flags.
General d himself was on the reviewing stand
adjust just as the overly tired men of the two one cab rumbled by in their tanks
and armored personnel carriers.
The general proudly saluted them.
Yeah.
The first man and the lead tank.
Not knowing it was a general saluting him or just not caring return.
The general snappy salute and the only way possible.
Okay.
He gave him the finger
June 6th,
1970 coming home.
Yeah.
Coming home,
we had to go through American customs,
sort of like weary tourists back from a year long overseas jaunt to the
enchanted east.
Did we have anything to declare?
Not much.
Most of our prize to px positions,
possessions were shipped home,
some having been ripped off by certain civilian stevedores but along the coast,
so now he is,
he's home.
June 7th,
1970 Fort Lewis,
Washington,
a big monster idiot tube welcomed us back to the world.
A third rate TV comedy in the sweaty lounge with grotesque,
absurd commercials screaming and clawing at their days to viewers with a never
ending by me fervor.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
I said as I turned the monster off,
I'm just not ready for all this yet.
I know what you mean.
Another voice said,
spending a whole year overseas fighting to defend all this crap.
So there you go.
The TV,
the TV,
the monster clawing,
yet it's viewers
by me.
By
May 5th,
1971 a march in San Francisco.
There was a huge antiwar protest march in San Francisco this week.
Over 700,000 people walked down Geary Street and in memory of some friends,
we found ourselves in front of a long,
large contingent of old timers from the Lincoln Brigade and directly behind a
large group of businessmen against the war.
There were students and veterans,
housewives with baby prams,
Burley's,
stevedores and electricians,
grandmothers and grandchildren,
policemen and hippies,
minorities and majorities,
all Americans peacefully asserting their constitutional right of free speech and
assembly.
After the speeches in golden gate park,
one badly crippled veteran in a wheelchair had just enough strength to hurl some
hardware,
one combat metals into the field,
a bronze star medal and two purple hearts.
Nobody cared about us when they sent us over there,
he said,
and nobody cares about us now.
Yeah,
and that
kind of closes out the,
the portion of the book
that I wanted to cover,
although I do want to actually finish it with what he finishes or how he
finishes the book and He,
and he finishes the book.
Peter End Swisher finishes the book with a,
with a quote from someone else
and
that's how he finishes the book.
So I want to read that
and it says
to close out the book,
it's called another time,
another place
this morning,
January 21st another picture of war was the worst I've ever seen.
It is just east of where the engineers have established a ferry crossing across
the river at a point where the river first bends toward the road
until there were,
they were buried there,
lay what was left of eight or 10 British soldiers,
perhaps one of their mortars was hit as some were burned and there had been a
heavy explosion,
but no shell crater was seen nearby
of two men,
only the lower half's remained.
Okay.
Another two were each lacking ahead.
And another had a leg off at the hip.
Okay.
All had been horribly injured.
A Christmas card lay on the ground,
baring the words in a child's handwriting
to the best daddy in the world.
Okay.
And those words were written by somebody by the name of Captain George Nash,
Royal Artillery,
Italy,
and
if you put this together,
Peter and Swisher,
the end in his
stands for Nash because Captain George Nash was Peter Swishers biological father
who I talked about in the beginning who was killed after the war as he came home
from Italy.
Oh,
another place,
another time.
You know,
life in,
in many ways,
in so many different ways,
we are not going to understand it.
It's in comprehensible.
I mean when you get this Christmas card laying on the ground amongst these
savagely wounded soldiers and it's Christmas card says in little kids riding to
the best daddy in the world.
I don't,
I don't understand that.
I don't know
why that is,
know why the world can be such a horrific place
and how life can be so tragic.
But that is the way it is
in some of the things that happen in the world.
They just happened and what we cannot control them.
But at the same time,
there are so many things in the world that we do control.
And all of us,
all of us,
we all can somehow in some way relieve,
or we can attenuate some of that tragedy.
We don't need to spurn a lonely blade of grass or damn the oceans roar.
We don't need to do that.
We can make someone's life a little bit better.
We can make ourselves a little bit better.
And in doing so,
we can make the world even just a small part of the world
a little bit
better.
And Peter Swisher,
he'd actually did survive Vietnam and he went on to become a lawyer.
And then he became a professor of law at the University of Richmond.
And he was married for 37 years and raised a daughter and
okay.
And he died June 15th,
yeah.
Of a cancer
cancer called Multiple Myeloma,
which if you don't know what that is,
that's one of the forms of cancer that's connected to,
to Agent Orange,
which is the chemical that we used in Vietnam to kill the foliage.
So the enemy couldn't hide it.
And that's the cancer that killed Peter Nash a Swisher.
But,
but luckily his voice and his memories live on with us through his writing and
through his stories.
And I think through these stories,
you left the world a little bit of a better place.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
So Echo,
maybe you could,
uh,
let me decompress a little bit and maybe tell us how we can help us
make the world a better place.
Make the world a little better place.
That sounds like a big deal.
It sounds like a big deal,
but yeah.
Is it really that big of a deal?
Well,
I'm not talking about you personally.
You got to individually go out and change the whole world.
Right.
In a way that everyone can see right now.
I had a conversation with,
who was I talking to?
Someone was asking me,
it might've been Pete,
it might've been Pete up in origin,
but I mean Peter Roberts,
it might've been him,
but somebody was asking me,
you know,
about,
coming up in the seal teams and when I decided to become an officer,
and I might've said this before on here,
I don't know,
but you know,
I had a platoon commander that was a prior list guy and he was awesome and we
all loved him.
And when you're in a sealable and that's the whole world,
that's the whole world is a seal platoon,
that's the whole world.
And we had this awesome officer and this is the time when we had a mutiny and
all that.
And so we got rid of our bad officer and we got this good officer came in and it
just made our,
our lives awesome.
Our lives were awesome.
And so I said to myself,
the back of my mind,
subconsciously kind of remotely conscious,
I dunno,
but I realized that this guy made our lives awesome.
You made our world awesome.
And I said to myself,
somewhere in the back,
the little barely formed human brain of mine.
I said to myself,
you know what,
someday this guy has made the our lives for us.
16 guys in this seal platoon,
our lives are awesome now and someday I'm going to try and make life good for 16
guys in a seal.
That was my goal.
Hmm.
Yeah.
And for that world,
so,
so when I say,
hey,
make the world a better place,
but what can you,
who could you make the world a better place for it?
Because you actually can't.
You actually can't tell you whether it's some kid down the street,
whether it's somebody that needs help out there,
whether it's your own kid,
how can you make the world a better place?
Because you can't.
What can you do to make it a little bit better starts?
You know what?
It starts with making yourself a little bit better.
Get yourself stable.
I'll tell you that.
You know,
it's like the oxygen mask that dropped down in the aircraft.
You got to get yourself squared away first.
Once you get yourself squared away,
add them.
Somebody asked me the other day like,
I'm bored,
what should I do?
And I was like,
Oh,
if you're board,
that means you got room,
you've got capacity,
you can go help people.
And you know how they say like helping others is like the ultimate like reward
people.
They say that I think even before you square yourself away,
eat,
eat.
It's harder to make that connection I think.
Yes.
Because you're still struggling yourself.
Yeah.
It was Kinda like us when you plant the seed,
it's like the seed got to grow into a thing about ground first then yeah,
sorta,
sorry kind of way.
But the more squared away like you get,
not only the more capable you are of helping others more effectively,
but the more you can make that connection like,
oh,
this reward is like way better than when I achieved the mice thing.
Right.
You know?
That's why a lot of people like if they really love what they do,
I'm not saying everybody,
but a lot of people want,
they love what they do,
but they're kind of like out of the the game,
they'll teach others how to do it.
It's just like a natural progression.
That is a natural progression.
That's true.
Look at Jujitsu.
Yeah.
You become a,
you become a world champion in Jujitsu.
That's great.
But then eventually a lot of those guys become instructors and they have teams
and that's what they want to do is spread the word and like you,
you'd see these guys who had like big,
big temp careers and stuff on a high level and they're teaching.
You see how happy they are teaching others like Blake,
Bob Ballou,
I don't seem like a random example,
but he popped in my head cause I,
I've been to his class and he's teaching the kids everything men.
I'm like,
this guy's like really engaged with this.
You know,
I,
I'll tell you right now,
my last,
and I knew I was like my last few years in the navy where I was running the
training and I was really teaching all the time.
Like that was so good for me.
I mean,
um,
oh gosh.
It was so gratifying.
Yeah.
That's it.
Can I get to see the light?
I get to see people learn.
I get to see people to make,
make the world good for someone.
You know,
these,
these three guys that figured something out,
it's like,
yeah man,
you're,
you're a leader.
You and that's,
that's good stuff.
So yeah,
when I talk about that sounds so a trite,
you make the world a better place.
Yeah.
So how could I say that better?
Hey Man,
fix something.
Helps.
Just pick something around you.
Make your world a better place.
That's what I should say.
Make your world or make someone else's world.
Just make it a little bit better.
Yeah.
You can have that capability to believe it or not.
And regardless of who that someone,
is that someone that someone is you too,
by the way,
actually you first or it could just be you.
Because if you make your,
it's like if you have a neighborhood right,
and the neighborhood,
I,
you know how they,
you know how hot your lawn and you clean up your thing and you're get that
squared away at south and everyone,
let's say there's 10 houses in a neighborhood,
small neighborhood,
whatever,
10 houses,
you cut your lawn,
you do your hedges,
you paint your house,
make sure there's no trash in the yard or whatever.
You've improved that whole neighborhood by one 10th alone,
let alone everybody else.
Don't even think about it.
Anybody that's one 10th it's a lot insane.
So play that concept.
There you go.
That's what you do.
Boom.
There you go.
And I like it.
So staying on the path that is help us,
help us.
That's what I said.
Actually I help us.
Can you tell us how to,
can you help us?
Help us?
Yes,
I do.
So yes,
be happy to.
So first thing obviously we were talking about you just do not obviously,
but we're going to talk about Jujitsu.
I think it is actually obvious at this point.
Yes it is.
How many people tweet me a day or messaged me that they took their first Jujitsu
class,
helped me a lot.
I didn't know how for you people means like three sometimes.
Yeah,
sometimes you're like,
well people have been asking for whatever.
Sure.
But sometimes that really means three people from,
no,
I'm talking on a daily,
daily basis.
Daily basis,
sir.
I would say,
I dunno,
I dunno.
Maybe three to five people a day.
A day.
Daily.
That's a lot.
Yeah.
Maybe it's over exaggerated in my head though.
You know what?
I don't think so because every single time I go on Twitter,
which is pretty much every day pretty much,
there's at least one person in,
you know the,
the alerts,
right?
That I'm like copied in or whatever and it'll say got my first Jujitsu class or
got beat up and in this is every single time.
Like I literally cannot remember.
People are getting on the Jujitsu train.
Yeah,
for sure.
Yes.
So let's talk about kind of obvious that we're going to talk about Jujitsu a
little bit.
You know what else is good?
Very few people say I tried.
You did too.
I just don't like it.
Yeah,
it's not for me.
That's very,
I've actually,
I can only think of off the top of my head.
One individual out of all those people that like went back and forth with me and
it was just like,
look,
I do not like this.
I think this is the guy that I said,
look,
you need to train until you submit someone.
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
Then you can stop.
If you can submit someone and you're like okay I don't like this.
It's pretty hard to understand.
It's truly not actually tapped someone out.
Yeah.
Then yeah.
But it's not for you.
But I bet you even that person,
once they got that our block,
they were like
yeah I would that my money would be on that scenario.
Talked a little bit of Claustrophobia,
right.
And I know you're over it could,
could,
could that alone stop someone from wanting to train Jiu Jitsu.
Cause I had one guy in a seal platoon with me that he would get so acoustic
train with everyone and when I would train with him he would get so freaked out.
Like he would start like,
like getting actually mad at me,
you know,
you know that.
And of course what did I do?
Yeah.
I would just side control.
Just smashed close as I could squeeze,
just smash try.
And you know what though?
It's trying to help us try to make this world a better place by getting him over
that fear exposure or their exposure situation.
Yes.
The answer's yes.
I think that because claustrophobia is like,
like for real claustrophobia,
not just like,
well I'm uncomfortable if you have a for real costs of will it be in,
it's a spectrum.
Some people have it worse than others,
but yeah,
if they have maybe somebody on the hardcore claustrophobia spectrum and then
they got introduced to it early on and someone that was like a Smasher,
right?
Yeah.
Because you wouldn't feel claustrophobic.
You if you were going with someone that's got like an open butterfly slash lasso
guard.
Yes.
You're not feeling very claustrophobic and con that triangle then all sudden you
freaking out and then you tap and you're out the place where you really feel
claustrophobic.
It's cross side or mount mount or,
yeah.
So,
and it's not even necessarily a smasher per se,
cause Jujitsu,
you can be mounted just normal mountain,
not smashing pressure,
whatever.
Just normal mount because it's not like it's cause claustrophobia psychological.
It's not like a physical thing.
Primary.
I mean there's physical elements for sure.
Of course it has to be.
But um,
if you just feel like you can't get out or you can't breathe or,
you know,
it's like that's the feeling.
But so like a lot of times,
even even when I was working through mine and you'd be like smashing me all hard
and be like bright,
you're wasting your energy.
The smashing doesn't do it when we're rolling and it's quiet.
Especially when you're like,
oh,
I,
when I know you're doing it on purpose,
it helps.
It helps me because it seems like a game.
Like you're just messing with me now.
So it's like,
but if it's seriously,
if we're just rolling,
we're not saying anything.
And it's like now I'm faced with either staying in this position right now
forever cause I can't get out.
I can't get out of your sight control right now.
Like history has proven to be kind of thing in my brain.
He's still either I,
I suck it up indefinitely or I tap out.
Both of those to me are death like to tap out because you're tired or
claustrophobia.
Like that's worse than tapping out from a submission.
So that's why a lot of the times you would claustrophobia me into giving me,
giving you my arm or something like that.
And then I'd have to tap it.
That's how it went.
And then,
so,
which is,
I think you,
I think you tapped two times from just straight claustrophobia because you
didn't freaking take,
it's a mission.
I was giving that and that's terrible.
And I remember like I was about to be let down at myself as you were saying all
this,
I was kind of disappointed in myself that I did identify that,
that there was a further torture.
I could've been doing to you,
but it looks like sometimes I did figure it out.
Yeah.
So you know,
you did,
I remember hearing,
I remember one time not to go too deep into this because I want to tell you a
lot about origin.
So there's this one time where I forget if I rolled with you like that day or
the day it was really recently a ruled with you and I was feeling claustrophobia
and you know I gave you my arm and then you took it.
And I was like,
yes.
Like I was happy that he tapped me out in letting me out of there.
Cause it's like,
it's really bad when you,
when you feel that.
So the next day I see you rolling with Dean and dean gets you in double snowing.
Right?
And you guys were rolling hard for a long time and I'm like,
Dang,
these guys are going hard.
I W I would be,
and I'm kind of empathy,
not empathizing,
you know,
when you put yourself in the other person's situation.
So I'm like,
Hey,
I'm thinking to myself,
man,
these guys are quite hard for a long time.
I would be guessing right now.
And then dean was like,
he,
he got,
he was getting kind of getting the better you got mountain.
I was,
I'd be like,
I'm,
I'm feeling for docker right now cause I've,
I've been in that scenario where it's like we're going hard and then I wind up
in Mount,
I'd be like,
man,
I'm feeling like,
like Brian like breaths just by watching and then he gets you in double snow
angel.
I'm like,
I,
I was getting like micro anxiety on the double snow angel that Dean is doing on
you cause that's claustrophobia right there like this.
You can do it,
you can't move.
What was my reaction?
She just powered through it.
Like you didn't even,
I don't think even tapped but he will use it like that for like a long time.
And I was like,
I was like this guys are different.
Another level savage and I'm not saying necessarily with the grappling,
I mean that was sort of like it,
you know,
that was a side thing.
Just the fact that you can endure what I just witnessed you endure and compare
it to my own shit.
I was like,
man,
nonetheless answers what happened the next day?
What do you mean?
Was there a follow on where I rolled with you again or is that the story?
What I was comparing it to,
what was helping me really get into your shoes is because I was remembering,
it could have been that same day that we rolled and I just gave into the classic
phobia.
Like it was like I had an issue,
I was like in terrible shape.
I would go train like twice a week maybe,
you know,
and not,
it was bad.
It was just a bad scenario.
But nonetheless,
yes,
the answer's yes.
If someone gets into Jujitsu and they um,
they have a claustrophobic preexisting conditions thing and then they get into
claustrophobia situation early on,
like the first or second day or something.
Yeah,
I could see how they wouldn't want to go back.
I don't know.
But here's the good thing about that.
If you do Jujitsu and reap the payoffs of Jujitsu and then you,
then you get into claustrophobia situation,
you're more worried about like how can I overcome the claustrophobia more.
So,
Hey,
Jujitsu produces too much claustrophobia for me.
You know what I mean?
Because you know the benefits and fuel,
like the payoff of the Jujitsu way more than you care about or fear cost of
phobia.
That's my,
that's my analysis anyway.
So speaking of Jujitsu,
Jujitsu,
yeah,
you're going to need a geek so you get an origin g that's it.
Straight up there.
It is answered your question because plenty people,
plenty people still ask me what gate again?
Origin,
gay boy.
You know why it's because people start at podcast one.
Yeah.
And I dig it.
And so there while they get them by podcasts,
you know,
I as asking people at,
at the camp,
I was asking people what broke you like cause cause people get meaning,
they're listening to the podcast and they're like,
wow,
they're talking about to,
and now while they're talking about,
but then there'll be like,
there'll be argued you when you were talking on podcast 23,
you were like,
there's nothing else I can,
I was like,
okay,
I'm going to try it.
So there's certain podcasts that people go,
all right,
screw it.
I'm just going to do this.
And I think you posted something on social media the other day that said that
you're,
if you're a white belt,
you already have achieved more than 99% of people in the world because how many
people actually less than 1% of the people in the world do Jujitsu for sure.
Yeah,
for sure.
Yeah.
Fully.
And um,
uh,
yeah,
I repost it.
I retweeted it from Joey Silvester.
Uh,
he,
and I think he even retweet it from somebody because it's so true.
Like,
and the reason I re posted it is of course for new new people,
you know,
coming in.
But that's a good reminder.
It was a good reminder for me for every cause.
I think it's a good room for,
for everybody because you know that feeling like you don't want,
people are like,
man I ain't for everybody in everything.
Not just Jujitsu.
Yeah.
Cause there's other stuff that you should be doing that you might not be doing
because you're like,
oh well I don't want us to cross the line or I don't want to take the first
step.
Yeah.
You know,
they don't want to take the first step.
Taking the first step is always big.
Wrote about that.
But even like taking,
so yeah,
again,
there's two,
two elements to that.
Taking the first step.
Meaning if you're not in Jujitsu and you take that first step to go to Jujitsu,
right.
There's that.
And then
to me it was like when you get your ass kicked,
you know,
like even even you,
how you say like sometimes I'll just get my ass kicked.
Some people,
no matter what level they're,
or they'll be like,
oh man,
you know,
they'll say,
oh man,
I got my ass kicked but I'm ready.
You know what?
I'm coming back and I liked it and all this stuff.
And the,
and then they'll ask when,
when do,
when do I not feel so awkward and when do I not feel like I don't know what I'm
doing?
I'm like,
well do it all.
You always feel like that.
You just feel like that little bit less every,
every year,
whatever.
And so,
and sometimes you can be at a high level and feel like that more often than not
still,
you know,
cause it just depends on the training partners,
all that stuff.
So I thought that that was a really good reminder.
It's like being there.
It's like super important.
Yeah.
And it's like really beneficial and also as the,
to take the first step,
if you're out there,
let this be the podcast number one 43 that you said,
you know what man,
I've heard enough talk about this.
I'm going to go some.
Yeah.
Today's the day.
There's plenty of Jujitsu schools out there and most of them are good.
You know,
which one makes or not,
which one,
but when,
this is what makes me like want to just go train right now is anytime you go
into one of your spiels about how it's a superpower,
it's absolutely true.
That's why.
Yeah.
I was telling call it like when were,
we were waiting earlier today,
my cousin called he um,
how when you start Jujitsu,
like you could do Jujitsu for one year and right then at that point you can,
you can beat up everyone else who doesn't play.
It doesn't do Jujitsu like in a,
just in a general way.
It's teaching,
you know,
like that.
Yeah.
Roughly speaking there and there are exceptions for sure.
But you know,
like there's not many things in the world that are like,
that are like that,
you know?
Yeah,
no,
it's,
it's a superpower.
Yeah.
So every time I listened to you say that kind of thing and do your little
explanation,
that's like,
yeah,
man,
that's true.
Cause it Kinda puts it into people bring their kids in here.
I tell them,
I was telling this family this the other day.
I said,
I,
I truly believe that Jujitsu is the best thing you can give your kid,
including love
that part out too.
So yeah,
I think it's very important.
All right,
so you can get your geese from origin,
main.com [inaudible] dot com made in Maine.
That's why its origin main.com and they're made there and they're made
specifically for Jujitsu.
The weave is for Jujitsu.
The fabric is for Jujitsu.
The cut is for Jujitsu.
Know made by people that do Jujitsu by black belts in Jiu Jitsu designed by
people that train.
Yeah.
People that are black belts.
Dead Deco.
Yup.
Peter Roberts in there with scissors cutting these.
Yeah,
sure.
Scissors.
Yeah.
I haven't really seen any scissors,
but you know,
I've seen those little,
what do you call them?
The little soft thing.
You know when you make the original patterns you've got to use scissors.
Brah I don't know that kinds of do that kind of stuff.
I know now though.
I know not and that's good.
So yeah,
scissors a saw,
all that stuff.
All made in America.
If you're trained to Nogi rash,
the rash guards,
it's 100% and they're also made here in America,
in America,
which is a big deal.
And if you're doing other exercise outside of Jujitsu,
got joggers,
if you're jogging or if you're just cruising whatever and hoodies and you know,
shirts,
whatnot,
apparel,
origin,
main.com.
All made in America,
by the way.
Also supplements,
Jocko supplements.
Yeah.
Joint Warfare.
Now people have been asking me joint warfare or Krill oil.
Yeah,
good question.
By the way,
it's a good question.
Um,
I think Brian,
I asked him the same question because I have a hard time answering it.
The reason I have a hard time answering this because I do both all the
time and I'm not stopping anyone from as an experiment.
I'm not doing that.
It's not worth it.
It's not worth it to be,
there's no logical reason for it.
But what he said,
and I kind of agree with this,
it makes sense if you are doing preventative Krill oil,
if you're doing,
he'll joint warfare.
Yeah.
Good way to put it.
You know,
my recommendation kind of as like a dual both take them both,
but um,
that sounds like a good idea.
So if you have,
if your joints are like just started bothering you or you got the elbows
bothering you,
your shoulder's bothering you.
I think shoulders for me is the one that I always notice.
Um,
yeah.
Then if it's hurt,
get on,
get on some joint warfare.
Yeah.
Yeah,
that's a good,
and I say both because it's,
the way I would see it in put it in,
this is just kind of the way I see it,
where it's like a 80,
20,
you know,
it's not like,
oh,
joint warfare is 100% for healing up and recovery.
And I actually don't think that at all.
But yeah,
I just,
and the other,
oh wow.
I Dunno.
Yeah,
that's what Brian said.
I'm putting it out there.
I'm not,
I would,
yeah.
I,
I obviously recommend both,
but you know,
somebody speak that costs a lot of money and some of some people are like,
you know what,
I can only afford one.
Cool.
I take Krill oil because that's all encompassing health,
right?
Yeah.
Whereas joints like,
yeah.
When your joints start getting jacked up a little bit.
Yeah.
Which by the way,
if you're doing Jujitsu,
you're going to feel it.
You're going to feel Jujitsu.
Jujitsu is not a sport that you don't feel you,
you will feel who feel it.
Yeah,
that's true.
But they're both good hundred percent and then you got milk milk.
So I'm,
I'm,
I'm envisioning a world one day,
cause I was in the traveling yesterday.
Horrible.
And Man,
I got like a chocolate milk,
like a regular chocolate milk,
which is just awful crap.
And it doesn't even taste as good.
It doesn't taste,
you get used to the milk.
That's what it was.
But still objectively it does not taste as good and it's unhealthy.
Yeah.
So one day,
one day in this world,
you'll be able to go to the little shop in the airport,
the seven 11 and you'll just be able to walk in.
They'll have a little counter from Olc,
they'll have a little moke situation.
They will cause,
how can they not do that?
I mean eventually,
right?
No,
I mean eventually you fast forward,
I don't know if it's going to take two years or four years,
but eventually so many people are going to demand it.
Yup.
Oh yeah.
There's going to be more restaurants.
There just can be different flavors.
It was just going to go,
they're like little mock bars,
bars,
but they won't even have food.
They'll just have multiple Malkia.
You know how they have tequila bars right though the same thing.
But moke Moke on tap.
Yeah.
That sounds like a good idea.
Um,
you know,
I have that dream too,
and um,
until then,
yeah,
you can get it at [inaudible] dot com but also discipline too,
if you want to get your mind right.
You know that expression get your mind right.
Not to say your mind is not right.
I'm saying no,
don't give any of the most fired up I've ever heard a guy tell me about getting
his mind right.
I was up at Yosemite and this guy,
I was coming out from a hike from a pretty good high couple of days out in the,
and there was a guy and he was,
he was in the middle of the river,
like sitting on a rock just to calm river,
not like know.
He's sitting on the rock and we stopped there.
I think we jumped in and you know,
he saw me and he was all,
he immediately,
you know,
I could tell he was in the game and he comes over and he was like,
I said,
hey man,
you know,
he said,
Oh man,
I list your podcast role.
We were listening to all the way,
he was with one of his buddies and we would listen to all the way up here.
We just drove six hours to get up here to just listen to whatever it was,
48 and 49 back to back.
I was like,
Oh man,
that's awesome.
He said,
what are you doing up here?
Do you climb it and you guys are going to go hiking?
He goes,
no man.
I just came up here to get my mind right and I was like,
I don't even know what that means.
I guess I do know what it means.
Again,
I kind of go up there and get your mind right.
Do you get,
and if you want supplementation for doing that discipline,
boom,
pretty mission mine,
your mind literally will get your mind right?
Yeah.
Pretty mission kits.
Your,
that's a positive thing,
right?
Yeah.
That's the origin main.com.
That's where you get it.
Also support yourself.
You want to represent Jaquis store.
It's called Jocko stores.
You go to Jocko store.com so he can represent huge time.
Huge name,
represent a lot of people representing and this is one of those things.
So basically this is where you get shirts and hoodies and hats,
rash guards,
trucker hats.
By the way,
I don't have to get flex.
You don't have if you don't want to,
if you prefer keeping it old school like we used to do it.
I'm trying,
I think I've worn trucker hats before on a regular basis.
I never saw him on hat until like three minutes ago.
When you put one on momentarily and I looked up and I though Scott disturbed.
Yeah,
well it's been literally like like 15 years before since I've,
and your head doesn't get a beat down by the sun.
Well I'm very brown and I'm from quiet so I think I'm used to that one.
Actually.
No,
to answer your question,
yes.
Sometimes if I hang in the sun for a long time,
did you want to hat you don't pull it off.
Maybe Straw hat,
something coconut,
coconut leaf
nonetheless when you're representing Jocko shirts,
when I see people representing in the wild who made that up in the wild with
that?
You said that or something you think someone else said that?
I don't know but I definitely,
I think I might've said it cause I think the first,
no I did say it because I remember I hadn't seen one in the wild and that's
something I'd be like,
I never saw a trooper in the wild.
And then eventually I did and now then I was in the airport yesterday I saw like
seven people.
They weren't wearing shirts,
but they were all coming up and being like,
Hey,
what's up?
So people were fired,
you know?
Yeah.
But yeah,
it's good.
Go there,
get something.
Uh,
you know,
if you want to represent and represent in the wild,
boom,
plenty equals freedom as where,
as that anyway.
Yeah.
Jocko store adopting a new discipline equals freedom shirts.
Yes.
It's,
it's a little bit cooler in my opinion.
Might be biased because I sort of had some influence.
I influenced that.
Well,
no one.
Yeah.
It was good.
You're good design you when you,
when I told you,
hey,
make equals smaller.
Yeah.
And I could see in your mind you were thinking is off balance,
off balance,
physically,
letters and then I gave you the idea of hey,
no,
you put two lines.
It's an equal sign.
There's layers and here you got all ex,
it was like a done deal and your mind nirvana had been achieved with some new t
shirts.
It did click because,
and I saw why you wanted the equals small.
Yeah,
because that's the main thing.
The main thing
nonetheless.
Anyway,
Jocko,
store.com if you want to referee games,
the main thing to represent.
Yeah,
not the equals equals this.
It's,
it's all equal,
but it's not the main thing.
Yeah.
All right.
There you go.
So Chuck,
we'll solve that problem.
Not that it was a problem,
but you know,
he,
he influenced with his improvement.
Yeah.
Somebody out there,
it's like,
no,
I liked the equal Spain.
Bigger echo shirt was better equality.
Boom.
They liked the discipline.
They liked the freedom,
they liked the freedom.
Doesn't muscle as a discipline and vice versa.
It was kind of the deal.
That's the deal.
And I dig it.
They're gonna have to keep with their old school shirt.
Represent,
get another way.
Yeah,
whatever man.
All good.
Also good way to stay on the path.
The current path is to subscribe to this podcast if you have not already.
That includes a youtube.
So that's the video version.
So yeah,
if you're on the podcast platforms,
apps,
whatever,
where you've listened to your podcasts meant subscribe,
leave a review if you feel like,
and also don't forget about the warrior kid podcast,
which we just released 17 and 18 and 18 all at the same time.
And I apologize that those,
uh,
took a little while to get out.
And My,
when I came down from my garage gym this morning got done with some,
I squatted today and I haven't been able to squat heavy.
I did not,
not like,
no,
not heavy.
Actually straight up not have because I have,
I had back to back tweak knee or tweaked back and then tweak me.
So I just haven't been able to give him
and today I just wear a man.
I couldn't believe squatting is hard.
Yes.
Like if you're not used to it,
which I'm not right now.
Yeah.
And I,
and believe me during the,
even when my back was tweaked and my knee was tweaking,
I'm still doing pistols,
I'm still doing box jumps.
I'm still doing burpees and lunges and even a little candle bell,
like type little,
you know,
movements.
So it's not like my legs are just sitting there atrophying on a couch.
No,
they're still in the game over here.
But man,
I just racked up.
I you,
you asked me what happened.
No,
I did two 25 I did like a few sets of two 25 and I was like,
and I was doing some stuff in between but still I couldn't believe that I,
yeah.
So my point is if you can squat,
squat,
if you can squat,
get squat,
get it on because that just makes you stronger,
tougher.
You do have that.
It might even make you smarter as far as
I read it.
Actually I think about it.
I'd read something about the,
the neuro tropic release that happens when you squat,
your body gets better.
Well that's exercise and resistance exercises and you don't actually,
a lot of kind of exercise in general kind of squatting.
You're using like a lot of it does more.
It's true.
It ups your testosterone.
There you go.
Because,
and here's why.
Basically cause it's a huge muscle group.
That's why,
and it's not just one muscle group.
Cause when you're squatting you're actually using,
I think when you're squatting you're using so many muscles.
Yeah,
makes all kinds of core stabilizers and stuff like that.
Mentioned the biggest muscles in your body and with basically all your big
muscles,
all of them.
Not just one big one and then a bunch of small ones like you know most of your
buddy.
That's kind of how it is.
You know you're,
you're using your,
your shoulders and then you're trying to help.
Then you tell the other day they had one dose else.
That's dope.
I was like Oh okay.
Yeah.
Everyone should have,
if you're,
if you have a hotel,
if you're a hotel owner,
get some condos in there,
get some condos and you don't even have to get,
you can get,
cause they normally stop at 50s if you get,
let's just say 50s if you just get a set of 70s and I set a hundos we'll be
good.
We'll be good worldwide.
The whole world will be happy.
You'll be especially happy cause I know you liked them.
Gumbo.
You were saying,
you know,
we were all fired up the other day talking about dumbbells
dumbbell.
Well it could because it's a fun exercise.
There's more to it than just getting under the bench for example,
and pushing the bench.
You know,
it's,
I mean this is what it a little bit more in a than that when you get into it.
But dumbbells like you got it,
okay,
you got to pick those guys up,
one in each hand and then you got to balance them on your knees and then you've
got to get him up there into position.
It's like a whole,
right.
There is a whole thing.
Exactly right.
And that's not to mention the strength you got to have to push up.
So you know when you get kind of good at them and you do them a lot,
it,
it does become kind of fun check.
There you go.
Boom.
Nonetheless.
I Dunno how he started talking about the unbuilt.
Well Jocko was squatting,
his legs are sore,
all this stuff.
And then,
and then warrior kid podcast.
How did that lead to it?
I don't know.
But you know,
every,
that's how you,
because when I came home,
oh yeah.
Because,
oh,
this was going to say,
my wife was listening to the warrior kid podcast this morning when I came down
from the,
from the gym and she was all smiles.
And she's like,
Oh,
if this story's very good darling,
cause I tell the little uncle Jake story here,
you know,
and she starts naming the people.
She's like,
oh,
is this this person?
Because the stories that Uncle Jake tells,
there's,
they're not,
uh,
what's there not nonfiction stories,
right?
Like,
but there's the basis I,
the story comes in some way.
Yes.
Yeah.
That's what is it based on a true story?
Well,
there's based and then there's inspired by,
they're probably,
well,
which one is the less true inspired by Ge.
So I,
they're inspired by inspired by true events,
but they're not,
they're not based on,
although the one that just came out,
me being out in a rowboat in the middle of a lake and the oars fall through the
warlocks that happened,
I guess what?
I had no life jacket.
Is that smart?
No.
So kids got to learn about that.
Be Prepared,
be prepared,
don't,
don't take little shortcuts.
Agree.
Anyways,
that's a warrior kid podcast.
Good.
You can,
you can listen to those.
And you talked about youtube.
Yeah.
If you're on the youtube channel,
Echo has put puts out,
he puts out videos and their enhanced,
we'll say yeah,
they're enhance.
Also just the regular video version of the podcast and little excerpts that are
not enhanced through just chopped up for consumption.
I think we should have more of those too,
by the way.
I put one up today.
We'll do that every day.
I think.
Good,
appropriate.
We'll say appropriate.
Yeah.
You might have to edit a more.
The one,
I think the one that was the one that you put up today,
like 10 minutes or 11 minutes long.
I forget.
Too Long.
It was how to stay in shape when you travel.
Yeah.
So it should be like this.
How to stay in shape when you travel,
do burpees and your hotel room gets on.
I think people need more information on that.
Also.
Hey Warrior kids speaking to where your kids get the uh,
go to Irish oaks ranch.com we got young aid in the warrior kid and he's making
soap.
You've got his own business.
He's got his own business.
I think he just turned 13 and what a couple months ago.
And he's got his own business.
He's got income,
he's got expenses,
he's got production,
he's got a production line.
And that knowledge is that very legit.
And it's not like,
Hey,
I dig it man.
When you sell lemonade,
we used to sell bananas when I was little.
We would go in the backyard
and we go on the side of her.
We stop every car.
It's a small road.
It's not the freeway or nothing.
We stop every car with eight.
We got Bananas.
$1 for one banana,
which I know is kind of expensive,
but $1 for one banana or $5 for a banana,
a bag of bananas for,
I think there's like,
I don't know,
eight or 10 bananas in there.
So you know the whole deal.
Yeah,
we'll make some money.
I dig it,
but let's face it,
you can give bananas literally on the side of the road anyway.
So they're like,
all right,
well by just being cool.
Yeah,
they're being cool.
But my little daughter,
she'd be out in front of my house selling a piece of rock selling.
Know she had to sound all kind of people buy it.
She cute,
she's cute.
And they go,
Oh yeah,
here you go.
Would you like to buy a rock star to come from over there in the dirt?
Oh,
okay.
Yeah.
We'll give you $3 for it.
The young lady.
Thank you.
Exactly.
So that's what you pulled with the bananas.
Yeah.
More or less.
I mean,
maybe a little bit more value than a rock,
but it's still,
yes,
you go over here,
Irish oaks ranch.
This soap is like legit.
So yeah.
Yeah,
for sure.
I'd say it's not like a novelty.
So it's like for real soap that you used.
Yeah,
for sure.
And it's a kid making it.
Yeah,
that's it.
That's the impressive part.
These and he's making it from goat milk,
so it's not like he's making these pouring like some,
he's milking a goat,
right?
Smoking smokiness,
goat milk to make the soap.
This is the whole thing.
Yeah.
It's not like it was going on the Internet to the Maaco soap.com and then they
go in and they send you the ingredients and then you pour them into a thing and
you got soap.
No,
he's milking it.
By the way,
he's raising the goat.
The goat.
The goat doesn't just like,
there's not alive.
It's not them mechanical goat.
It's a living code at an Asian America made in America to have absolutely made
it,
so yeah,
it goes deep man ranch,
the.com stay clean.
He also got psychological warfare.
If you need a little little get some.
Yeah,
you can throw that.
You get it free your alarm clock if you need it for your alarm clock if you need
it.
If you have a little trouble getting up out of bed in the morning,
use it for your long comp,
but give your significant other,
most likely your wife.
Give her a heads up that there's going to be a random dude in the bedroom in the
morning talking to you so doesn't surprise her and scare her and make her hate
you.
That's psychological warfare.
Itunes,
Google play,
and we're coming out with a second one.
We're going to try.
I'm going to try and get that done by Christmas.
Can we've done by Christmas you think?
I think so,
yeah.
Okay,
cool.
We're doing shopping,
shopping,
compulsive shopping.
Somebody wants smoking and how many people we can do it.
Yes,
yes.
Okay.
I'll try smoke.
I'll think about smoking.
I don't,
I've never smoked so it's a little hard for me to relate to.
Right,
right.
But I may do just a straight up addiction addiction.
Yeah.
What are you addicted to?
Because everybody is addicted to something.
You know,
some people are addicted to cocaine,
some people are addicted to alcohol,
some people are addicted to sugar,
some people are addicted to drama.
That's what I was going to say.
Yeah.
People are addicted to drama,
so maybe we'll do one about that.
But yeah,
that's psychological warfare and can get on iTunes,
Google play and all that stuff.
What is psychological warfare?
No.
Well,
if he hit a moment of weakness,
boldness into psychological warfare and get you past it,
that's what it is.
Boom.
Also speaking of weakness and your workouts,
workout weakness,
real weakness,
physical weakness,
whatever.
Anyway,
you hit a plateau in your workout.
Get some new equipment.
That's what I did.
I got written,
get it from on it on it.com/jocko I got rings and Kettlebells.
Actually that was a long time ago.
Got The kettlebells,
but I'm glad I did.
Um,
again,
the rings,
battle ropes,
like stuff,
you can vary it,
vary it up and create little challenges for yourself within the workout.
I know that's what kind of what it worked out is,
but you don't want it gets mundane
ETF.
Actually,
I think you do know when it gets because for you it is mundane.
You just,
yeah,
I think that's part of your challenge.
I think that's your challenge.
Yeah.
You exercise workouts a lot more than you think.
I do.
Yeah.
Sometimes I do squats and then sometimes I do front squats.
Well,
there you go.
You heard it here first folks,
like I said,
[inaudible] dot com slash [inaudible] and then you get some tea.
A lot of people been asking where to get the cans,
the ready to drink RTD.
That's a thing that you start learning when you like get into this kind of
thing.
What to like the industry terminology.
Rtd ready to drink.
So if you want Jocko white tea in a can,
this is another thing.
One day in the world it's going to be like,
Hey,
I'm driving out of a long drive.
I'm going to stop at this seven 11 here.
I'm going to go in there.
They're going to have job instead of having to get a horrible chemical filled,
crappy sugar psycho drink and I'm going to get something that is literally good
for me.
Yup.
Jocko white tea.
Huh?
And then that's what's going to happen.
But until then it's on Amazon.
It's on Amazon prime.
Why is that?
Because freaking it weighs a lot.
So to save money for you on the shipping,
you can get the Amazon prime and it just comes to your house and it's awesome.
And the obvious benefit and everyone you know,
knows already,
is that once you drink Jocko white tea,
you can dead lift a minimum of 8,000 pounds,
including Jordan Peterson who overcame his plateau of 7,000 pounds.
That's good.
I'm self right up there to 8,000 pounds.
Got Some books too.
Books where the word kid can't marks mission Mark's mission.
Did the second one and then weigh the word kid.
Mark's mission.
I told you I read this to my daughter every night,
right?
Yes.
Now will every he was being,
when I said it right every night it's like pretty much every night.
See what I'm saying?
We do other quizzes and stuff,
but now she's in kindergarten now and now there's a thing where they require,
they don't require but certainly recommend per night.
So I did,
I just do one chapter a night,
boom,
boom.
And she got so into,
she's into this second one a lot.
A lot more because I mean not that she wasn't because the first one,
that's kind of the ethos now cause I read it more than once to her.
So maybe that has a lot to do.
Yeah,
you might go.
Yeah she's into the new one because it's new.
At some point you're gonna go back to the original one and she's going to start
me.
Even like me when I read like I was reading about face the other night for the
47000th time and you're like you just get more stuff out of it.
And I think those books,
those warrior could books.
That's what's going to happen.
Like when she turns six she's gonna read it again.
When she turned seven she's going to be like,
Oh yeah I'm going to get discipline equals freedom.
I just know what that means right now.
But when she's eight she's going to figure that out.
Yeah.
Nathan James.
This makes it extra funny cause I know who Nathan James Is.
You know what I'm saying?
Like,
I know that they are funny where she really like anytime he comes up,
cause you know how it kind of each chapter it goes back and forth.
One is like him at camp and what happened then the other one is like him
starting business and went back to camp and doing so it's like that.
Right?
So every time we go back to Nathan James,
she perks up like what's over there.
And so we're at the part where uh,
you know how he's doing recon,
right?
It's finding out finding out about Nathan James and she's finding out that part
and then like she's really,
cause we tell her that we used to tell her that all the time.
Not Everybody has a TV in their room.
Not everybody has like all this Xyz good stuff and whatever.
So she really like it.
It was like she was familiar with the concept so she really just attached to it.
But yeah,
for some reason I don't know because I make my voice like how you make your
voice on there for when I make Nathan James the wayside.
I think that's part of it to do.
I do Nathan,
James and the audio.
No,
but no,
no,
no.
When you,
you know how you make your voice when you imitate some,
some Dork or whatever,
you know.
No,
I know,
but I make my voice like Nathan James.
Good.
I tried to make him sound annoying because he's annoying what I'm saying.
Okay.
But yeah.
Anyway,
it's a very dealt with both of James on the podcast.
Can't wait,
fired up.
He was down here.
But um,
I was like,
Hey,
are we going to do this?
And he was just busy and he goes,
well,
let's wait until I get this thing taken care of and then we'll do it.
And I said,
cool man.
So we're going to do it.
Nathan James also discipline equals freedom field manual best kind of manual
there is by the way,
a field manual.
That's my opinion.
This is how to,
you know,
how you have a basic structure slash backbone and just how to be,
what,
you know what word you're looking for,
what operating system.
Operating system.
Yup.
Perfect.
Perfect word.
Actually.
Um,
that's your,
so it's like boom.
Urien it.
Cool.
I've got a general thing,
but you can kind of have it to refer to every once in a while.
It's pretty cool to get feedback on that book.
Yeah.
And have people that get completely on the path from that book and then more
important they stay on the path from that book.
Is it possible that a book has that much of an impact?
The answer's yes.
And it seems weird to say that.
I mean it does and it seems weird for me to say that,
but there's,
that is 100% true.
It's 100% true.
Yeah.
And I'll tell you what,
I mean,
do you,
do you read it?
Yeah.
I mean I know.
Yes.
So I mean,
so I was going to say,
it may not make sense for you,
but it will make perfect sense to you where you know,
how like there's a lot of good books out there.
He told her like good books and there,
you know,
but you read them and they're kind of long and they have the,
they're real laid out very well and there's like they go into detail,
which is good.
That's kind of what a good book Kinda does.
Right.
This one kind of violates that rule in a way cause it's super basic.
But that's why in my opinion,
like when I go back to it I can just go back to it and boom.
It's all like in there.
I don't have to read like 10 or 20 or 30 pages.
Yeah.
You know,
so it's like the fundamental first Ron in your face.
Yeah.
Good reminder.
You got extreme ownership for combat leadership principles that you can use in
your business in life.
Written mud be and my brother Leif Babin and we have a followup to that book
coming out.
It's called the dichotomy of leadership.
You need to,
if you want to get first edition,
which,
which you do,
hey,
somebody at camp gave me a first edition of Ernie piles.
Book brave men first edition.
Yeah.
How awesome is that?
So that feeling that,
that,
that feeling right there of like I got the first edition of this book,
brave men,
that's the one where he's talking about the rumbling coming in.
That noise is building and he doesn't know what it is and he looks up in the sky
and he's like,
it was that.
I have these,
probably one of my favorite quotes
and I have the first,
a dish of that book now.
So dichotomy of leadership.
Of course.
What's the publisher doing?
Cutting corners.
Hey,
we can get away.
Oh yeah,
they're being considered.
And of course they're going to do that.
They're going to do that because that's just what they do.
That's what they're,
they're gamblers.
They,
they make their little predictions and that's what they get.
That's what they're doing.
They'd rather,
they'd rather,
they'd rather actually underestimate,
ha have a little demand for the book and have a little spike in a little buzz
about that.
So they,
they would rather there be less first edition or rather have more people walking
around with the fourth edition.
That's all lame.
So anyways,
yeah,
dichotomy,
leadership coming out.
September 25th if you want to get on that thing,
you can preorder it wherever you preorder books,
you can preorder it and then got a leadership consulting company called Echelon
Front where we solve problems through leadership.
What kind of problems?
All of them.
Because every problem that you have inside your organization as a leadership
problem,
I'm here to tell you straight up factually,
no matter what the problem is,
it's a leadership problem.
And I know that might hurt because guess who the leader is.
You're the leader or your subordinate leaders.
They're not doing what they're supposed to do.
You need to get them on board with the program.
You're not making the the bottom line.
Guess what?
Guess what kind of problem that is not a money problem.
It's a leadership problem.
Productions not meeting its quota.
Is that a production problem?
It's a leadership problem.
So no matter what problems you're having in your organization,
they get solved through leadership.
It's me,
it's Lafe.
It's JP,
Dave Flynn and Mike.
And if you want us to come and work with your company,
don't call a speaking agency,
just go to echelon front.com and we will show up and crush,
um,
muster zero zero six might be sold out by the time this gets released.
But if you want to come,
we talk leadership intensely and granularly for two days.
It's in San Francisco,
October 17th and 18th.
You can register for that extreme ownership.com
same with the roll call.
Yeah,
I think we're done talking about the roll call roll call is when this podcast
comes out.
I don't think there'll be any more seats.
So for the muster and the rule,
this is the first roll call.
So I don't know,
but for the muster,
what percentage of,
let's say your typical group of people that come and whatever,
what's the percentage of appeal wise?
What's the percentage of just so there's information perfect.
You know,
good guidance.
And then there's just to hang like let's,
you know,
like if you look at the days,
the days we go from eight in the morning until four o'clock in the afternoon and
on the first day and,
and then the second day we go eight in the morning until three o'clock in the
afternoon or maybe two 30 and to answer your question,
we start,
we muster with everyone at four 45 in the morning.
So we that whole time the,
and then when we get done at five we hang out until nine or 10 that nights.
And then the next day,
same thing for 45 in the morning.
And then we go to Jujitsu at night.
And so yeah,
I mean were there the whole time yet you will 100% hang out?
Yeah,
that's what I mean.
All of us.
That's your question.
Yeah.
A percentage of you hanging out and is 100% yeah,
that's part of the appeal,
right?
Because how you say,
yeah,
we must wait for 45 but one could think from the outside,
hey that's a workout,
but here's the thing.
Yeah,
it's a workout,
but it's kind of fun just talking trash and you know,
afterwards we kind of,
you know,
and it's kind of a hang until it starts at eight and then beat,
you know the,
the,
the breaks that you take or whatever.
It's like,
oh yeah,
you're kind of having ups takes a break.
Yeah.
You guys,
we don't take breaks.
We just answer questions to,
we talked to people,
we take pictures,
signed books,
whatever,
the whole time.
And that kind of happens throughout the whole time.
And then after it's sorta wraps,
it's a pain in my side too.
I've painted the whole team into a coral O'Malley.
Totally did.
Cause it'll be getting,
I was like,
look,
they're not going to be any green room.
We're not going backstage.
We're going to be out there the whole time.
So guess what we do?
There is no green room.
There's no backstage.
We're out there the whole time.
It's like two 20 hour days is what it is because four hours we get some sleep.
They were like,
yeah,
Oh yeah,
you don't want a green room.
Okay,
now you can't have,
yeah,
exactly.
That's how it goes down
on top of that.
I like I said roll call,
we're pretty much done with number one.
You can check and see if there's any openings but it's probably not looking
great right now.
Maybe we can open up a couple more seats anyways for that as well.
register@extremeownership.com and now of course we have f Overwatch.
We're connecting
SPEC OPS and combat
aviation leaders to companies that need leaders.
People are asking,
um,
you know what,
what about guys from conventional forces,
which the reason we started with combat aviation in Spec ops cause that's where
we came from.
And so that's where we have community ties now that we actually have,
we actually have some people coming on the team right now from conventional
forces that we work with alongside awesome leaders.
And so we're looking at how we're going to open this up to the rest of the
military and get everyone else engaged.
Cause guess what?
We work the civilian sector all the time.
I just said problems get solved by leadership.
Civilian companies.
Guess what they need?
They need leaders and the military housing.
So that's work.
And if you want to enroll in that from either side,
from either a person that wants a job or a person that's looking for leaders,
go to over overwatch.com
and until we do see you at one of these events or see you in the airport or see
you on the Jujitsu Mat or see you wherever,
if you want to interact or give us answers or give us questions,
you can do that on the inner webs.
We are on Twitter,
we're on the Instagram and we're also on Facebook.
Keep both.
Echo is an echo.
Charles and I am at Jocko Willink.
And finally to those of you who like Peter Nash Swisher who served in the
military or you are serving in the military at this time,
thank you for your service.
And for those that protect us here at home and the police and law enforcement
and correctional officers and firefighters and border patrol and paramedics and
all other first responders.
Thank you for what you do day in and day out and to everyone else,
making your way through the world,
working and grinding and building and creating.
That's awesome.
And keep doing those things
and do those things with some intent,
some good intent.
The intent to make yourself better.
Yeah.
And when you've got yourself on a good path,
then show someone else the path.
Help them off that slippery slope.
Help them
cause in another time and another place.
It could be you that needs help.
So take the world or that little part of the world that you can take it into
your trembling hand and help
help yourself become better.
Help others become better.
And in doing so,
help this
strange and often hostile world that we live in.
Make it just a little bit better by getting out there
and getting after it.
And until next time,
this is echo and Jocko out.